<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/, se: https://standardebooks.org/vocab/1.0" xml:lang="en-GB">
	<head>
		<title>Act I</title>
		<link href="../css/core.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
		<link href="../css/local.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
	</head>
	<body epub:type="bodymatter z3998:drama z3998:fiction">
		<section id="act-1" epub:type="chapter z3998:scene">
			<h2>
				<span epub:type="label">Act</span>
				<span epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">I</span>
			</h2>
			<div class="scene">
				<p><span class="smcap">Scene</span>: <i>The hall of <span class="smcap">David Bliss’s</span> house is very comfortable and extremely untidy. There are several of <span class="smcap">Simon’s</span> cartoons scattered about the walls, masses of highly coloured American and classical music strewn about the piano, and lots of flowers and comfortable furniture. A staircase ascends to a small balcony leading to the bedrooms, <span class="smcap">David’s</span> study and <span class="smcap">Simon’s</span> room. There is a door leading to the library down R. A service door above it under the stairs. There are French windows at back, and the front door on the L.</i></p>
			</div>
			<div class="direction">
				<p>[<i>When the curtain rises it is about three o’clock on a Saturday afternoon in June.</i></p>
				<p>[<i><span class="smcap">Simon</span>, in an extremely dirty tennis shirt and baggy grey flannel trousers, is crouched in the middle of the floor, cutting out squares from cartridge paper.</i></p>
				<p>[<i><span class="smcap">Sorel</span>, more neatly dressed, is stretched on the sofa, reading a very violently bound volume of poems which have been sent to her by an aspiring friend.</i></p>
			</div>
			<p><span class="smcap">Sorel</span>: Listen to this, Simon. (<i>She reads.</i>) “Love’s a Trollop stained with wine—Clawing at the breasts of Adolescence—Nuzzling, tearing, shrieking, beating—God, why were we fashioned so!” (<i>She laughs.</i>)</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">Simon</span>: The poor girl’s potty.</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">Sorel</span>: I wish she hadn’t sent me the beastly book. I must say something nice about it.</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">Simon</span>: The binding’s very dashing.</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">Sorel</span>: She used to be such fun before she married that gloomy little man.</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">Simon</span>: She was always a fierce <i>poseuse</i>. It’s so silly of people to try and cultivate the artistic temperament. <i>Au fond</i> she’s just a normal, bouncing Englishwoman.</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">Sorel</span>: You didn’t shave this morning.</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">Simon</span>: I know I didn’t, but I’m going to in a minute, when I’ve finished this.</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">Sorel</span>: I sometimes wish we were more normal and bouncing, Simon.</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">Simon</span>: Why?</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">Sorel</span>: I should like to be a fresh, open-air girl with a passion for games.</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">Simon</span>: Thank God you’re not.</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">Sorel</span>: It would be so soothing.</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">Simon</span>: Not in this house.</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">Sorel</span>: Where’s Mother?</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">Simon</span>: In the garden, practising.</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">Sorel</span>: Practising?</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">Simon</span>: She’s learning the names of the flowers by heart.</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">Sorel</span>: What’s she up to?</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">Simon</span>: I don’t know.—Damn! that’s crooked.</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">Sorel</span>: I always distrust her when she becomes the Squire’s lady.</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">Simon</span>: So do I.</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">Sorel</span>: She’s been at it hard all day—she tapped the barometer this morning.</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">Simon</span>: She’s probably got a plan about impressing somebody.</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">Sorel</span> (<i>taking a cigarette</i>): I wonder who.</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">Simon</span>: Some dreary, infatuated young man will appear soon, I expect.</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">Sorel</span>: Not to-day? You don’t think she’s asked anyone down to-day, do you?</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">Simon</span>: I don’t know. Has Father noticed anything?</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">Sorel</span>: No; he’s too immersed in work.</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">Simon</span>: Perhaps Clara will know.</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">Sorel</span>: Yell for her.</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">Simon</span> (<i>calling</i>): Clara! Clara!...</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">Sorel</span>: Oh, Simon, I <i>do</i> hope she hasn’t asked anyone down to-day.</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">Simon</span>: Why? Have you?</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">Sorel</span>: Yes.</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">Simon</span> (<i>crossly</i>): Why on earth didn’t you tell me?</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">Sorel</span>: I didn’t think you’d care one way or another.</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">Simon</span>: Who is it?</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">Sorel</span>: Richard Greatham.</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">Simon</span>: How exciting! I’ve never heard of him.</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">Sorel</span>: I shouldn’t flaunt your ignorance if I were you—it makes you look silly.</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">Simon</span> (<i>rising</i>): Well, that’s done. (<i>He rolls up the cartridge paper.</i>)</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">Sorel</span>: Everybody’s heard of Richard Greatham.</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">Simon</span> (<i>amiably</i>): How lovely for them.</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">Sorel</span>: He’s a frightfully well-known diplomatist—I met him at the Mainwarings’ dance.</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">Simon</span>: He’ll need all his diplomacy here.</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">Sorel</span>: I warned him not to expect good manners, but I hope you’ll be as pleasant to him as you can.</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">Simon</span> (<i>gently</i>): I’ve never met any diplomatists, Sorel, but as a class I’m extremely prejudiced against them. They’re so suave and polished and debonair.</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">Sorel</span>: You could be a little more polished without losing caste.</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">Simon</span>: Will he have the papers with him?</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">Sorel</span>: What papers?</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">Simon</span> (<i>vaguely</i>): Oh, any papers.</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">Sorel</span>: I wish you’d confine your biting irony to your caricatures, Simon.</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">Simon</span>: And I wish you’d confine your girlish infatuations to London, and not force them on your defenceless family.</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">Sorel</span>: I shall keep him out of your way as much as possible.</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">Simon</span>: Do, darling.</p>
			<div class="direction">
				<p>[<i>Enter <span class="smcap">Clara</span>. She is a hot, round, untidy little woman.</i></p>
			</div>
			<p><span class="smcap">Simon</span>: Clara, has Mother asked anyone down this week-end?</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">Clara</span>: I don’t know, dear. There isn’t much food in the house, and Amy’s got toothache.</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">Sorel</span>: I’ve got some oil of cloves somewhere.</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">Clara</span>: She tried that, but it only burnt her tongue. The poor girl’s been writhing about in the scullery like one o’clock.</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">Sorel</span>: You haven’t forgotten to put those flowers in the Japanese room?</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">Simon</span>: The Japanese room is essentially feminine, and entirely unsuited to the Pet of the Foreign Office.</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">Sorel</span>: Shut up, Simon.</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">Clara</span>: The room looks lovely, dear—you needn’t worry. Just like your mother’s dressing-room on a first night.</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">Simon</span>: How restful!</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">Clara</span> (<i>to <span class="smcap">Sorel</span></i>): Have you told her about your boy friend?</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">Sorel</span> (<i>pained</i>): Not boy friend, Clara.</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">Clara</span> (<i>going round, picking up things</i>): Oh, well, whatever he is.</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">Simon</span>: I think Sorel’s beginning to be ashamed of us all, Clara—I don’t altogether blame her; we are very slapdash.</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">Clara</span>: Are you going to leave that picture in the guests’ bathroom, dear? I don’t know if it’s quite the thing—lots of pink, naked women rolling about in a field.</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">Simon</span> (<i>severely</i>): Nudity can be very beautiful, Clara.</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">Clara</span>: Oh, can it! Perhaps being a dresser for so long ’as spoilt me eye for it. (<i>She goes out.</i>)</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">Simon</span>: Clara’s looking tired. We ought to have more servants and not depend on her so much.</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">Sorel</span>: You know we can never keep them. You’re right about us being slapdash, Simon. I wish we weren’t.</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">Simon</span>: Does it matter?</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">Sorel</span>: It must, I think—to other people.</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">Simon</span>: It’s not our fault—it’s the way we’ve been brought up.</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">Sorel</span>: Well, if we’re clever enough to realise that, we ought to be clever enough to change ourselves.</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">Simon</span>: I’m not sure that I want to.</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">Sorel</span>: We’re so awfully bad-mannered.</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">Simon</span>: Not to people we like.</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">Sorel</span>: The people we like put up with it because they like us.</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">Simon</span>: What do you mean, exactly, by bad manners? Lack of social tricks and small-talk?</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">Sorel</span>: We never attempt to look after people when they come here.</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">Simon</span>: Why should we? It’s loathsome being looked after.</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">Sorel</span>: Yes, but people like little attentions. We’ve never once asked anyone if they’ve slept well.</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">Simon</span>: I consider that an impertinence, anyhow.</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">Sorel</span>: I’m going to try to improve.</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">Simon</span>: You’re only going on like this because you’ve got a mania for a diplomatist. You’ll soon return to normal.</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">Sorel</span> (<i>earnestly</i>): Abnormal, Simon—that’s what we are. Abnormal. People stare in astonishment when we say what we consider perfectly ordinary things. I just remarked at Freda’s lunch the other day how nice it would be if someone invented something to make all our faces go up like the Chinese, because I was so bored with them going down—and they all thought I was mad!</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">Simon</span>: It’s no use worrying, darling; we see things differently, I suppose, and if people don’t like it they must lump it.</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">Sorel</span>: Mother’s been awfully restless lately.</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">Simon</span>: Yes, I know.</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">Sorel</span>: Life must be terribly dull for her now, with nothing to do.</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">Simon</span>: She’ll go back soon, I expect; people never retire from the stage for long.</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">Sorel</span>: Father will be livid if she does.</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">Simon</span>: That won’t matter.</p>
			<div class="direction">
				<p>[<i>Enter <span class="smcap">Judith</span> from the garden. She is carrying an armful of flowers and wearing a tea-gown, a large garden hat, gauntlet gloves and goloshes.</i></p>
			</div>
			<p><span class="smcap">Judith</span>: You look awfully dirty, Simon. What have you been doing?</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">Simon</span> (<i>nonchalantly</i>): Not washing very much.</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">Judith</span>: You should, darling, really. It’s so bad for your skin to leave things about on it. (<i>She proceeds to take off her goloshes.</i>)</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">Sorel</span>: Clara says Amy’s got toothache.</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">Judith</span>: Poor dear! There’s some oil of cloves in my medicine cupboard. Who is Amy?</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">Sorel</span>: The scullery-maid, I think.</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">Judith</span>: How extraordinary! She doesn’t look Amy a bit, does she? Much more Flossie.—Give me a cigarette.</p>
			<div class="direction">
				<p>[<i><span class="smcap">Sorel</span> gives her a cigarette and lights it.</i></p>
			</div>
			<p class="noindent">Delphiniums are those stubby red flowers, aren’t they?</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">Simon</span>: No, darling, they’re tall and blue.</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">Judith</span>: Yes, of course. The red ones are somebody’s name—Asters, that’s it. I knew it was something opulent. I do hope Clara has remembered about the Japanese room.</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">Sorel</span>: Japanese room!</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">Judith</span>: Yes; I told her to put some flowers in it and take Simon’s flannels out of the wardrobe drawer.</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">Sorel</span>: So did I.</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">Judith</span> (<i>ominously</i>): Why?</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">Sorel</span> (<i>airily</i>): I’ve asked Richard Greatham down for the week-end—I didn’t think you’d mind.</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">Judith</span>: Mind! How dared you do such a thing?</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">Sorel</span>: He’s a diplomatist.</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">Judith</span>: That makes it much worse. We must wire and put him off at once.</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">Sorel</span>: It’s too late.</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">Judith</span>: Well, we’ll tell Clara to say we’ve been called away.</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">Sorel</span>: That would be extremely rude, and, anyhow, I <i>want</i> to see him.</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">Judith</span>: You mean to stand there in cold blood and tell me you’ve asked a complete stranger down for the week-end, and that you want to see him!</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">Sorel</span>: I’ve often done it before.</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">Judith</span>: I fail to see how that helps matters. Where’s he going to sleep?</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">Sorel</span>: The Japanese room.</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">Judith</span>: Oh, no, he isn’t—Sandy Tyrell is sleeping in it.</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">Simon</span>: There now! What did I tell you?</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">Sorel</span>: Sandy—what?</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">Judith</span>: Tyrell, dear.</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">Simon</span>: Why didn’t you tell us, Mother?</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">Judith</span>: I did. I’ve talked of nothing but Sandy Tyrell for days. I adore Sandy Tyrell.</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">Simon</span>: You’ve never mentioned him.</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">Sorel</span>: Who is he, Mother?</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">Judith</span>: He’s a perfect darling, and madly in love with me—at least, it isn’t me really, it’s my Celebrated Actress glamour—but it gives me a divinely cosy feeling. I met him at Nora Trent’s.</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">Sorel</span>: Mother, I wish you’d give up this sort of thing.</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">Judith</span>: What exactly do you mean by “this sort of thing,” Sorel?</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">Sorel</span>: You know perfectly well what I mean.</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">Judith</span>: Are you attempting to criticise me?</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">Sorel</span>: I should have thought you’d be above encouraging silly callow young men who are infatuated by your name.</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">Judith</span>: That may be true, but I shall allow nobody but myself to say it. I hoped you’d grow up a good daughter to me, not a critical aunt.</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">Sorel</span>: It’s so terribly cheap.</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">Judith</span>: Cheap! Nonsense! What about your diplomatist?</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">Sorel</span>: Surely that’s a little different, dear?</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">Judith</span>: If you mean that because you happen to be a vigorous <i>ingénue</i> of nineteen you have the complete monopoly of any amorous adventure there may be about, I feel it my firm duty to disillusion you.</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">Sorel</span>: But, Mother——</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">Judith</span>: Anyone would think I was eighty, the way you go on. It was a great mistake not sending you to boarding schools, and you coming back and me being your elder sister.</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">Simon</span>: It wouldn’t have been any use. Everyone knows we’re your son and daughter.</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">Judith</span>: Only because I was stupid enough to dandle you about in front of cameras when you were little. I knew I should regret it.</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">Simon</span>: I don’t see any point in trying to be younger than you are.</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">Judith</span>: At your age, dear, it would be indecent if you did.</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">Sorel</span>: But, Mother darling, don’t you see, it’s awfully undignified for you to go flaunting about with young men?</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">Judith</span>: I don’t flaunt about—I never have. I’ve been morally an extremely nice woman all my life—more or less—and if dabbling gives me pleasure, I don’t see why I shouldn’t dabble.</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">Sorel</span>: But it oughtn’t to give you pleasure any more.</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">Judith</span>: You know, Sorel, you grow more damnably feminine every day. I wish I’d brought you up differently.</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">Sorel</span>: I’m proud of being feminine.</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">Judith</span> (<i>kissing her</i>): You’re a darling, and I adore you; and you’re very pretty, and I’m madly jealous of you.</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">Sorel</span> (<i>with her arms round her</i>): Are you really? How lovely.</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">Judith</span>: You will be nice to Sandy, won’t you?</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">Sorel</span> (<i>breaking away</i>): Can’t he sleep in “Little Hell”?</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">Judith</span>: My dear, he’s frightfully athletic, and all those hot-water pipes will sap his vitality.</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">Sorel</span>: They’ll sap Richard’s vitality too.</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">Judith</span>: He won’t notice them; he’s probably used to scorching tropical Embassies with punkahs waving and everything.</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">Simon</span>: He’s sure to be deadly, anyhow.</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">Sorel</span>: You’re getting far too blasé and exclusive, Simon.</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">Simon</span>: Nothing of the sort. Only I loathe being hearty with your men friends.</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">Sorel</span>: You’ve never been even civil to any of my friends, men or women.</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">Judith</span>: Don’t bicker.</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">Simon</span>: Anyhow, the Japanese room’s a woman’s room, and a woman ought to have it.</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">Judith</span>: I promised it to Sandy—he loves anything Japanese.</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">Simon</span>: So does Myra.</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">Judith</span>: Myra!</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">Simon</span>: Myra Arundel. I’ve asked her down.</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">Judith</span>: You’ve—what?</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">Simon</span>: I’ve asked Myra down for the week-end—she’s awfully amusing.</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">Sorel</span>: Well, all I can say is, it’s beastly of you. You might have warned me. What on earth will Richard say?</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">Simon</span>: Something exquisitely non-committal, I expect.</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">Judith</span>: This is too much! Do you mean to tell me, Simon——</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">Simon</span> (<i>firmly</i>): Yes, Mother, I do. I’ve asked Myra down, and I have a perfect right to. You’ve always brought us up to be free about things.</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">Judith</span>: Myra Arundel is straining freedom to its utmost limits.</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">Simon</span>: Don’t you like her?</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">Judith</span>: No, dear, I detest her. She’s far too old for you, and she goes about using Sex as a sort of shrimping net.</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">Simon</span>: Really, Mother——!</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">Judith</span>: It’s no use being cross. You know perfectly well I dislike her, and that’s why you never told me she was coming until too late to stop her. It’s intolerable of you.</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">Sorel</span> (<i>grandly</i>): Whether she’s here or not is a matter of extreme indifference to me, but I’m afraid Richard won’t like her very much.</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">Simon</span>: You’re afraid he’ll like her too much.</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">Sorel</span>: That was an offensive remark, Simon, and rather silly.</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">Judith</span> (<i>plaintively</i>): Why on earth don’t you fall in love with nice young girls, instead of self-conscious vampires?</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">Simon</span>: She’s not a vampire, and I never said I was in love with her.</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">Sorel</span>: He’s crazy about her. She butters him up and admires his sketches.</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">Simon</span>: What about you picking up old gentlemen at dances?</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">Sorel</span> (<i>furiously</i>): He’s <i>not</i> old!</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">Judith</span>: You’ve both upset me thoroughly. I wanted a nice, restful week-end, with moments of Sandy’s ingenuous affection to warm the cockles of my heart when I felt in the mood, and now the house is going to be full of discord—not enough food, everyone fighting for the bath—perfect agony! I wish I were dead!</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">Simon</span>: You needn’t worry about Myra and me. We shall keep out of everyone’s way.</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">Sorel</span>: I shall take Richard on the river all day to-morrow.</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">Judith</span>: In what?</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">Sorel</span>: The punt.</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">Judith</span>: I absolutely forbid you to go near the punt.</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">Simon</span>: It’s sure to rain, anyhow.</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">Judith</span>: What your father will say I tremble to think. He needs complete quiet to finish off “The Sinful Woman.”</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">Sorel</span>: I see no reason for there to be any noise, unless Sandy What’s-his-name is given to shouting.</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">Judith</span>: If you’re rude to Sandy I shall be extremely angry.</p>
			<table class="inline">
				<tbody>
					<tr>
						<td>
							<p><span class="smcap">Sorel</span>:</p>
						</td>
						<td class="tdr">
							<p>}</p>
						</td>
						<td>
							<p>Now, look here, Mother——</p>
						</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td>
							<p><span class="smcap">Simon</span>:</p>
						</td>
						<td class="tdr">
							<p>}</p>
						</td>
						<td>
							<p>Why you should expect——</p>
						</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td>
							<p><span class="smcap">Judith</span>:</p>
						</td>
						<td class="tdr">
							<p>}</p>
						</td>
						<td>
							<p>He’s coming all the way down specially to be nice to me——</p>
						</td>
					</tr>
				</tbody>
			</table>
			<div class="direction">
				<p>[<i>Enter <span class="smcap">David</span> down stairs. He looks slightly irritable.</i></p>
			</div>
			<p><span class="smcap">David</span>: Why are you all making such a noise?</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">Judith</span>: I think I’m going mad.</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">David</span>: Why hasn’t Clara brought me my tea?</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">Judith</span>: I don’t know.</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">David</span>: Where is Clara?</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">Judith</span>: Do stop firing questions at me, David.</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">David</span>: Why are you all so irritable? What’s happened?</p>
			<div class="direction">
				<p>[<i>Enter <span class="smcap">Clara</span>, with a tray of tea for one.</i></p>
			</div>
			<p><span class="smcap">Clara</span>: Here’s your tea. I’m sorry I’m late with it. Amy forgot to put the kettle on—she’s got terrible toothache.</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">David</span>: Poor girl! Give her some oil of cloves.</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">Sorel</span>: If anyone else mentions oil of cloves, I shall do something desperate.</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">David</span>: It’s wonderful stuff. Where’s Zoe?</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">Simon</span>: She was in the garden this morning.</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">David</span>: I suppose no one thought of giving her any lunch?</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">Clara</span>: I put it down by the kitchen table as usual, but she never came in for it.</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">Sorel</span>: She’s probably mousing.</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">David</span>: She isn’t old enough yet. She might have fallen into the river, for all you care. I think it’s a shame!</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">Clara</span>: Don’t you worry your head—Zoe won’t come to any harm; she’s too wily.</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">David</span>: I don’t want to be disturbed. (<i>He takes his tray and goes upstairs; then he turns.</i>) Listen, Simon. There’s a perfectly sweet flapper coming down by the four-thirty. Will you go and meet her and be nice to her? She’s an abject fool, but a useful type, and I want to study her a little in domestic surroundings. She can sleep in the Japanese room.</p>
			<div class="direction">
				<p>[<i>He goes off, leaving behind him a deathly silence.</i></p>
			</div>
			<p><span class="smcap">Judith</span>: I should like someone to play something very beautiful to me on the piano.</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">Simon</span>: Damn everything! Damn! Damn! Damn!</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">Sorel</span>: Swearing doesn’t help.</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">Simon</span>: It helps me a lot.</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">Sorel</span>: What does Father mean by going on like that?</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">Judith</span>: In view of the imminent reception, you’d better go and shave, Simon.</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">Sorel</span> (<i>bursting into tears of rage</i>): It’s perfectly beastly! Whenever I make any sort of plan about anything it’s always done in by someone. I wish I were earning my own living somewhere—a free agent—able to do whatever I liked without being cluttered up and frustrated by the family——</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">Judith</span> (<i>picturesquely</i>): It grieves me to hear you say that, Sorel.</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">Sorel</span>: Don’t be infuriating, Mother.</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">Judith</span> (<i>sadly</i>): A change has come over my children of late. I have tried to shut my eyes to it, but in vain. At my time of life one must face bitter facts!</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">Simon</span>: This is going to be the blackest Saturday till Monday we’ve ever spent.</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">Judith</span> (<i>tenderly</i>): Sorel, you mustn’t cry.</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">Sorel</span>: Don’t sympathise with me; it’s only temper.</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">Judith</span> (<i>clasping her</i>): Put your head on my shoulder, dear.</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">Simon</span> (<i>bitterly</i>): Your head like the golden fleece....</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">Sorel</span>: Richard’ll have to have “Little Hell” and that horrible flapper the Japanese room.</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">Judith</span>: Over my dead body!</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">Simon</span>: Mother, what <i>are</i> we to do?</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">Judith</span> (<i>drawing him forcibly into her arms so that there is a charming little motherly picture</i>): We must all be very, very kind to everyone!</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">Simon</span>: Now then, Mother, none of that!</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">Judith</span> (<i>aggrieved</i>): I don’t know what you mean, Simon.</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">Simon</span>: You were being beautiful and sad.</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">Judith</span>: But I am beautiful and sad.</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">Simon</span>: You’re not particularly beautiful, darling, and you never were.</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">Judith</span> (<i>glancing at herself in the glass</i>): Never mind; I made thousands think I was.</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">Simon</span>: And as for being sad——</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">Judith</span>: Now, Simon, I will not be dictated to like this. If I say I’m sad, I <i>am</i> sad. You don’t understand, because you’re precocious and tiresome.... There comes a time in all women’s lives——</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">Sorel</span>: Oh dear!</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">Judith</span>: What did you say, Sorel?</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">Sorel</span> (<i>recovering</i>): I said, “Oh dear!”</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">Judith</span>: Well, please don’t say it again, because it annoys me.</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">Sorel</span>: You’re such a lovely hypocrite.</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">Judith</span> (<i>casting up her eyes</i>): I’m sure I don’t know what I’ve done to be cursed with such ungrateful children. It’s very cruel at my time of life——</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">Simon</span>: There you go again!</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">Judith</span> (<i>inconsequently</i>): You’re getting far too tall, Sorel.</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">Sorel</span>: Sorry, Mother.</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">Judith</span>: Give me another of those disgusting cigarettes—I don’t know where they came from.</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">Simon</span> (<i>giving her one</i>): Here. (<i>He lights it for her.</i>)</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">Judith</span>: I’m going to forget entirely about all these dreadful people arriving. My mind henceforward shall be a blank on the subject.</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">Sorel</span>: It’s all very fine, Mother, but——</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">Judith</span>: I made a great decision this morning.</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">Simon</span>: What kind of decision?</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">Judith</span>: It’s a secret.</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">Sorel</span>: Aren’t you going to tell us?</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">Judith</span>: Of course. I meant it was a secret from your Father.</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">Simon</span>: What is it?</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">Judith</span>: I’m going back to the stage.</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">Simon</span>: I knew it!</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">Judith</span>: I’m stagnating, you see. I won’t stagnate as long as there’s breath left in my body.</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">Sorel</span>: Do you think it’s wise? You retired so very finally last year. What excuse will you give for returning so soon?</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">Judith</span>: My public, dear—letters from my public!</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">Simon</span>: Have you had any?</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">Judith</span>: One or two. That’s what decided me, really—I ought to have had hundreds.</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">Sorel</span>: We’ll write some lovely ones, and you can publish them in the papers.</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">Judith</span>: Of course.</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">Sorel</span>: You will be dignified about it all, won’t you, darling?</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">Judith</span>: I’m much more dignified on the stage than in the country—it’s my <i>milieu</i>. I’ve tried terribly hard to be “landed gentry,” but without any real success. I long for excitement and glamour. Think of the thrill of a first night; all those ardent playgoers willing one to succeed; the critics all leaning forward with glowing faces, receptive and exultant—emitting queer little inarticulate noises as some witty line tickles their fancy. The satisfied grunt of the <i>Daily Mail</i>, the abandoned gurgle of the <i>Sunday Times</i>, and the shrill, enthusiastic scream of the <i>Daily Express</i>! I can distinguish them all——</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">Simon</span>: Have you got a play?</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">Judith</span>: I think I shall revive “Love’s Whirlwind.”</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">Sorel</span> (<i>collapsing on to sofa</i>): Oh, Mother! (<i>She gurgles with laughter.</i>)</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">Simon</span> (<i>weakly</i>): Father will be furious.</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">Judith</span>: I can’t help that.</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">Sorel</span>: It’s such a fearful play.</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">Judith</span>: It’s a marvellous part. You mustn’t say too much against it, Sorel. I’m willing to laugh at it a little myself, but, after all, it <i>was</i> one of my greatest successes.</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">Simon</span>: Oh, it’s appalling—but I love it. It makes me laugh.</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">Judith</span>: The public love it too, and it doesn’t make them laugh—much. (<i>She recites</i>) “You are a fool, a blind, pitiable fool. You think because you have bought my body that you have bought my soul!” You must say that’s dramatic.—“I’ve dreamed of love like this, but I never realised, I never knew how beautiful it could be in reality!” That line always brought a tear to my eye.</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">Simon</span>: The Second Act <i>is</i> the best, there’s no doubt about that.</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">Judith</span>: From the moment Victor comes in it’s strong—tremendously strong.... Be Victor a minute, Sorel——</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">Sorel</span>: Do you mean when he comes in at the end of the act?</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">Judith</span>: Yes, you know—“Is this a game?”</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">Sorel</span> (<i>with feeling</i>): “Is this a game?”</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">Judith</span> (<i>with spirit</i>): “Yes—and a game that must be played to the finish.”</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">Simon</span>: “Zara, what does this mean?”</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">Judith</span>: “So many illusions shattered—so many dreams trodden in the dust!”</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">Sorel</span>: I’m George now—“I don’t understand! You and Victor—My God!”</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">Judith</span>: “Sssh! Isn’t that little Pam crying?”</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">Simon</span> (<i>savagely</i>): “She’ll cry more, poor mite, when she realises her mother is a——”</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">Judith</span> (<i>shrieking</i>): “Don’t say it—don’t say it!”</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">Sorel</span>: “Spare her that.”</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">Judith</span>: “I’ve given you all that makes life worth living—my youth, my womanhood, and now my child. Would you tear the very heart out of me? I tell you that it’s infamous that men like you should be allowed to pollute Society. You have ruined my life—I have nothing left—nothing. God in heaven, where am I to turn for help....”</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">Sorel</span> (<i>through clenched teeth</i>): “Is this true? Answer me—is this true?”</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">Judith</span> (<i>wailing</i>): “Yes, yes!”</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">Sorel</span> (<i>springing at <span class="smcap">Simon</span></i>): “You cur!”</p>
			<div class="direction">
				<p>[<i>The front door bell rings.</i></p>
			</div>
			<p><span class="smcap">Judith</span>: Damn! There’s the bell.</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">Sorel</span> (<i>rushing to the glass</i>): I look hideous!</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">Simon</span>: Yes, dear.</p>
			<div class="direction">
				<p>[<i><span class="smcap">Clara</span> enters.</i></p>
			</div>
			<p><span class="smcap">Judith</span>: Clara—before you open the door—we shall be eight for dinner.</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">Clara</span>: My God!</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">Simon</span>: And for breakfast, lunch, tea, and dinner to-morrow.</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">Judith</span> (<i>vaguely</i>): Will you get various rooms ready?</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">Clara</span>: I shall have to—they can’t sleep in the passage.</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">Sorel</span>: How we’ve upset Clara.</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">Judith</span>: It can’t be helped—nothing can be helped. It’s Fate—everything that happens is Fate. That’s always a great comfort to me.</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">Clara</span>: More like arrant selfishness.</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">Judith</span>: You mustn’t be pert, Clara.</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">Clara</span>: Pert I may be, but I ’ave got some thought for others. Eight for dinner—Amy going home early. It’s more nor less than an imposition.</p>
			<div class="direction">
				<p>[<i>The bell rings again.</i></p>
			</div>
			<p><span class="smcap">Simon</span>: Hadn’t you better let them all in?</p>
			<div class="direction">
				<p>[<i><span class="smcap">Clara</span> goes to the front door and admits <span class="smcap">Sandy Tyrell</span>, who is a fresh-looking young man; he has an unspoilt, youthful sense of honour and rather big hands, owing to a misplaced enthusiasm for amateur boxing.</i></p>
				<p>[<i><span class="smcap">Clara</span> goes out.</i></p>
			</div>
			<p><span class="smcap">Sandy</span> (<i>to <span class="smcap">Judith</span></i>): I say, it’s perfectly ripping of you to let me come down.</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">Judith</span>: Are you alone?</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">Sandy</span> (<i>surprised</i>): Yes.</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">Judith</span>: I mean, you didn’t meet anyone at the station?</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">Sandy</span>: I motored down; my car’s outside. Would you like me to meet anybody?</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">Judith</span>: Oh, no. I must introduce you. This is my daughter Sorel, and my son Simon.</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">Sandy</span> (<i>shaking hands</i>): How-do-you-do.</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">Sorel</span> (<i>coldly</i>): I’m extremely well, thank you, and I hope you are.</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">Simon</span>: So do I.</p>
			<div class="direction">
				<p>[<i>They both go upstairs rather grandly. <span class="smcap">Sandy</span> looks shattered.</i></p>
			</div>
			<p><span class="smcap">Judith</span>: You must forgive me for having rather peculiar children. Have you got a bag or anything?</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">Sandy</span>: Yes; it’s in the car.</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">Judith</span>: We’d better leave it there for the moment, as Clara has to get the tea. We’ll find you a room afterwards.</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">Sandy</span>: I’ve been looking forward to this most awfully.</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">Judith</span>: It is nice, isn’t it? You can see as far as Marlow on a clear day, they tell me.</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">Sandy</span>: I meant I’ve been looking forward to seeing you.</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">Judith</span>: How perfectly sweet of you. Would you like a drink?</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">Sandy</span>: No thanks. I’m in training.</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">Judith</span> (<i>sitting on sofa and motioning him to sit beside her</i>): How lovely. What for?</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">Sandy</span>: I’m boxing again in a couple of weeks.</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">Judith</span>: I must come to your first night.</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">Sandy</span>: You look simply splendid.</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">Judith</span>: I’m so glad. You know, you mustn’t mind if Simon and Sorel insult you a little—they’ve been very bad-tempered lately.</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">Sandy</span>: It’s awfully funny you having a grown-up son and daughter at all. I can hardly believe it.</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">Judith</span> (<i>quickly</i>): I was married very young.</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">Sandy</span>: I don’t wonder. You know, it’s frightfully queer the way I’ve been planning to know you for ages, and I never did until last week.</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">Judith</span>: I liked you from the first, really, because you’re such a nice shape.</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">Sandy</span> (<i>slightly embarrassed</i>): Oh, I see....</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">Judith</span>: Small hips and lovely long legs—I wish Simon had smaller hips. Do you think you could teach him to box?</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">Sandy</span>: Rather—if he likes.</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">Judith</span>: That’s just the trouble—I’m afraid he won’t like. He’s so dreadfully un——that sort of thing. But never mind; you must use your influence subtly. I’m sure David would be pleased.</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">Sandy</span>: Who’s David?</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">Judith</span>: My husband.</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">Sandy</span> (<i>surprised</i>): Oh!</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">Judith</span>: Why do you say “Oh” like that? Didn’t you know I had a husband?</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">Sandy</span>: I thought he was dead.</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">Judith</span>: No, he’s not dead; he’s upstairs.</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">Sandy</span>: You’re quite different from what you were the other day.</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">Judith</span>: It’s this garden hat—I’ll take it off. (<i>She does so.</i>) There. I’ve been pruning the calceolarias.</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">Sandy</span> (<i>puzzled</i>): Oh?——</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">Judith</span>: I love my garden, you know—it’s so peaceful and quaint. I spend long days dreaming away in it—you know how one dreams.</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">Sandy</span>: Oh, yes.</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">Judith</span> (<i>warming up</i>): I always longed to leave the brittle glamour of cities and theatres and find rest in some old-world nook. That’s why we came to Cookham.</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">Sandy</span>: It’s awfully nice—Cookham.</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">Judith</span>: Have you ever seen me on the stage?</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">Sandy</span>: Rather!</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">Judith</span>: What in?</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">Sandy</span>: That thing when you pretended to cheat at cards to save your husband’s good name.</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">Judith</span>: Oh, “The Bold Deceiver.” That play was never quite right.</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">Sandy</span>: You were absolutely wonderful. That was when I first fell in love with you.</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">Judith</span> (<i>delighted</i>): Was it, really?</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">Sandy</span>: Yes; you were so frightfully pathetic and brave.</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">Judith</span> (<i>basking</i>): Was I?</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">Sandy</span>: Rather!</p>
			<div class="direction">
				<p>[<i>There is a pause.</i></p>
			</div>
			<p><span class="smcap">Judith</span>: Well, go on....</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">Sandy</span>: I feel such a fool, telling you what I think, as though it mattered.</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">Judith</span>: Of course it matters—to me, anyhow.</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">Sandy</span>: Does it—honestly?</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">Judith</span>: Certainly.</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">Sandy</span>: It seems too good to be true—sitting here and talking as though we were old friends.</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">Judith</span>: We <i>are</i> old friends—we probably met in another life. Reincarnation, you know—fascinating!</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">Sandy</span>: You do say ripping things.</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">Judith</span>: Do I? Give me a cigarette and let’s put our feet up.</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">Sandy</span>: All right.</p>
			<div class="direction">
				<p>[<i>They settle themselves comfortably at opposite ends of the sofa, smoking.</i></p>
			</div>
			<p><span class="smcap">Judith</span>: Can you punt?</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">Sandy</span>: Yes—a bit.</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">Judith</span>: You must teach Simon—he always gets the pole stuck.</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">Sandy</span>: I’d rather teach you.</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">Judith</span>: You’re so gallant and chivalrous—much more like an American than an Englishman.</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">Sandy</span>: I should like to go on saying nice things to you for ever.</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">Judith</span> (<i>giving him her hand</i>): Sandy!</p>
			<div class="direction">
				<p>[<i>There comes a loud ring at the bell. <span class="smcap">Judith</span> jumps.</i></p>
			</div>
			<p class="noindent">There now!</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">Sandy</span>: Is anyone else coming to stay?</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">Judith</span>: Anyone else! You don’t know—you just don’t know. Give me my hat.</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">Sandy</span> (<i>giving it to her</i>): You said it would be quite quiet, with nobody at all.</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">Judith</span>: I was wrong. It’s going to be very noisy, with herds of angry people stamping about.</p>
			<div class="direction">
				<p>[<i><span class="smcap">Clara</span> enters and opens the front door. <span class="smcap">Myra Arundel</span> is posed outside, consciously well-dressed, with several suit-cases, and a tennis racquet.</i></p>
			</div>
			<p><span class="smcap">Myra</span> (<i>advancing</i>): Judith—my—dear—this is divine!</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">Judith</span> (<i>emptily</i>): Too, too lovely——Where are the others?</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">Myra</span>: What others?</p>
			<div class="direction">
				<p>[<i><span class="smcap">Clara</span> goes out.</i></p>
			</div>
			<p><span class="smcap">Judith</span>: Did you come by the four-thirty?</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">Myra</span>: Yes.</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">Judith</span>: Didn’t you see anyone at the station?</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">Myra</span>: Yes; several people, but I didn’t know they were coming here.</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">Judith</span>: Well, they are.</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">Myra</span>: Sorel said it was going to be just ourselves this week-end.</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">Judith</span> (<i>sharply</i>): Sorel?</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">Myra</span>: Yes—didn’t she tell you she’d asked me? Weren’t you expecting me?</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">Judith</span>: Simon muttered something about your coming, but Sorel didn’t mention it. Wasn’t that odd of her?</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">Myra</span>: You’re a divinely mad family. (<i>To <span class="smcap">Sandy</span></i>) How-do-you-do? It’s useless to wait for introductions with the Blisses. My name’s Myra Arundel.</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">Judith</span> (<i>airily</i>): Sandy Tyrell, Myra Arundel; Myra Arundel, Sandy Tyrell. There.</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">Myra</span>: Is that your car outside?</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">Sandy</span>: Yes.</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">Myra</span>: Well, Judith, I <i>do</i> think you might have told me someone was motoring down. A nice car would have been so much more comfortable than that beastly train.</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">Judith</span>: I never knew you were coming until a little while ago.</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">Myra</span>: It’s heavenly here—after London. The heat was terrible when I left. You look awfully well, Judith. Rusticating obviously agrees with you.</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">Judith</span>: I’m glad you think so. Personally, I feel that a nervous breakdown is imminent.</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">Myra</span>: My dear, how ghastly! What’s the matter?</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">Judith</span>: Nothing’s the matter yet, Myra, but I have presentiments. Come upstairs, Sandy, and I’ll show you your room.</p>
			<div class="direction">
				<p>[<i>She begins to go upstairs, followed by <span class="smcap">Sandy</span>. Then she turns.</i></p>
			</div>
			<p class="noindent">I’ll send Simon down to you. He’s shaving, I think, but you won’t mind that, will you?</p>
			<div class="direction">
				<p>[<i>She goes off. <span class="smcap">Myra</span> makes a slight grimace after her, then she helps herself to a cigarette and wanders about the hall—she might almost play the piano a little; anyhow, she is perfectly at home.</i></p>
				<p>[<i><span class="smcap">Simon</span> comes downstairs very fast, putting on his coat. He has apparently finished his toilet.</i></p>
			</div>
			<p><span class="smcap">Simon</span>: Myra, this is marvellous! (<i>He tries to kiss her.</i>)</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">Myra</span> (<i>pushing him away</i>): No, Simon dear; it’s too hot.</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">Simon</span>: You look beautifully cool.</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">Myra</span>: I’m more than cool really, but it’s not climatic coolness. I’ve been mentally chilled to the marrow by Judith’s attitude.</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">Simon</span>: Why, what did she say?</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">Myra</span>: Nothing very much. She was bouncing about on the sofa with a hearty young thing in flannels, and seemed to resent my appearance rather.</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">Simon</span>: You mustn’t take any notice of Mother.</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">Myra</span>: I’ll try not to, but it’s difficult.</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">Simon</span>: She adores you, really.</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">Myra</span>: I’m sure she does.</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">Simon</span>: She’s annoyed to-day because Father and Sorel have been asking people down without telling her.</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">Myra</span>: Poor dear! I quite see why.</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">Simon</span>: You look enchanting.</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">Myra</span>: Thank you, Simon.</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">Simon</span>: Are you pleased to see me?</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">Myra</span>: Of course. That’s why I came.</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">Simon</span>: Darling!</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">Myra</span>: Sssh! Don’t shout.</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">Simon</span>: I feel most colossally temperamental—I should like to kiss you and kiss you and kiss you and break everything in the house and then jump into the river.</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">Myra</span>: Dear Simon!</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">Simon</span>: You’re everything I want you to be—absolutely everything. Marvellous clothes, marvellous looks, marvellous brain——Oh, God, it’s terrible....</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">Myra</span>: I dined with Charlie Templeton last night.</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">Simon</span>: Well, you’re a devil. You only did it to annoy me. He’s far too plump, and he can’t do anything but dither about the Embassy in badly-cut trousers. You loathe him really; you know you do—you’re too intelligent not to. You couldn’t like him and me at the same time—it’s impossible!</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">Myra</span>: Don’t be so conceited.</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">Simon</span>: Darling—I adore you.</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">Myra</span>: That’s right.</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">Simon</span>: But you’re callous—that’s what it is, callous! You don’t care a damn. You don’t love me a bit, do you?</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">Myra</span>: Love’s a very big word, Simon.</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">Simon</span>: It isn’t—it’s tiny. What are we to do?</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">Myra</span>: What do you mean?</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">Simon</span>: We can’t go on like this.</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">Myra</span>: I’m not going on like anything.</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">Simon</span>: Yes, you are; you’re going on like Medusa, and there are awful snakes popping their heads out at me from under your hat—I shall be turned to stone in a minute, and then you’ll be sorry.</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">Myra</span> (<i>laughing</i>): You’re very sweet, and I’m very fond of you.</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">Simon</span>: Tell me what you’ve been doing—everything.</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">Myra</span>: Nothing.</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">Simon</span>: What did you do after you’d dined with Charlie Templeton?</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">Myra</span>: Supped with Charlie Templeton.</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">Simon</span>: Well, I don’t mind a bit. I hope you ate a lot and enjoyed yourself—there!</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">Myra</span>: Generous boy! Come and kiss me.</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">Simon</span>: You’re only playing up to me now; you don’t really want to a bit.</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">Myra</span>: I’m aching for it.</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">Simon</span> (<i>kissing her violently</i>): I love you.</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">Myra</span>: This week-end’s going to be strenuous.</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">Simon</span>: Hell upon earth—fifteen million people in the house. We’ll get up at seven and rush away down the river.</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">Myra</span>: No, we won’t.</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">Simon</span>: Don’t let either of us agree to anything we say—we’ll both be difficult. I love being difficult.</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">Myra</span>: You certainly do.</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">Simon</span>: But I’m in the most lovely mood now. Just seeing you makes me feel grand——</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">Myra</span>: Is your father here?</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">Simon</span>: Yes; he’s working on a new novel.</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">Myra</span>: He writes brilliantly.</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">Simon</span>: Doesn’t he? He drinks too much tea, though.</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">Myra</span>: It can’t do him much harm, surely?</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">Simon</span>: It tans the stomach.</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">Myra</span>: Who is Sandy Tyrell?</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">Simon</span>: Never heard of him.</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">Myra</span>: He’s here, with Judith.</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">Simon</span>: Oh, that poor thing with hot hands! We’ll ignore him.</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">Myra</span>: I thought he looked rather nice.</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">Simon</span>: You must be mad. He looked disgusting.</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">Myra</span> (<i>laughing</i>): Idiot!</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">Simon</span> (<i>flinging himself on the sofa</i>): Smooth my hair with your soft white hands.</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">Myra</span> (<i>ruffling it</i>): It’s got glue on it.</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">Simon</span> (<i>catching her hand and kissing it</i>): You smell heavenly. What is it?</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">Myra</span>: Borgia of Rosine.</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">Simon</span>: How appropriate. (<i>He pulls her down and kisses her.</i>)</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">Myra</span> (<i>breaking away</i>): You’re too demonstrative to-day, Simon.</p>
			<div class="direction">
				<p>[<i>The front door bell rings.</i></p>
			</div>
			<p><span class="smcap">Simon</span>: Damn, damn! It’s those drearies.</p>
			<div class="direction">
				<p>[<i><span class="smcap">Myra</span> powders her nose as <span class="smcap">Clara</span> crosses to open door.</i></p>
				<p>[<i><span class="smcap">Richard Greatham</span> and <span class="smcap">Jackie Coryton</span> come in. There is, by this time, a good deal of luggage on the step. <span class="smcap">Richard</span> is iron-grey and tall; <span class="smcap">Jackie</span> is small and shingled, with an ingenuous manner which will lose its charm as she grows older.</i></p>
			</div>
			<p><span class="smcap">Richard</span>: This is Mrs. Bliss’s house.</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">Clara</span> (<i>off-hand</i>): Oh, yes, this is it.</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">Richard</span>: Is Miss Sorel Bliss in?</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">Clara</span>: I expect so. I’ll see if I can find her. (<i>She goes upstairs, humming a tune.</i>)</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">Simon</span>: Hallo. Did you have a nice journey?</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">Richard</span>: Yes, thank you, very nice. I met Miss Coryton at the station. We introduced ourselves while we were waiting for the only taxi to come back.</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">Myra</span>: Oh, <i>I</i> took the only taxi. How maddening of me.</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">Richard</span>: Mrs. Arundel! How-do-you-do. I never recognised you.</p>
			<div class="direction">
				<p>[<i>They shake hands.</i></p>
			</div>
			<p><span class="smcap">Jackie</span>: I did.</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">Myra</span>: Why? Have we met anywhere?</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">Jackie</span>: No; I mean I recognised you as the one who took the taxi.</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">Richard</span> (<i>to <span class="smcap">Simon</span></i>): You are Sorel’s brother?</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">Simon</span>: Yes; she’ll be down in a minute. Come out into the garden, Myra——</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">Myra</span>: But, Simon, we can’t....</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">Simon</span> (<i>grabbing her hand and dragging her off</i>): Yes, we can. I shall go mad if I stay in the house a moment longer. (<i>Over his shoulder to <span class="smcap">Richard</span> and <span class="smcap">Jackie</span></i>) Tea will be here soon.</p>
			<div class="direction">
				<p>[<i>He and <span class="smcap">Myra</span> go off.</i></p>
			</div>
			<p><span class="smcap">Jackie</span>: Well!</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">Richard</span>: A strange young man.</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">Jackie</span>: Very rude, I think.</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">Richard</span>: Have you ever met him before?</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">Jackie</span>: No; I don’t know any of them except Mr. Bliss—he’s a wonderful person.</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">Richard</span>: I wonder if he knows you’re here.</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">Jackie</span>: Perhaps that funny woman who opened the door will tell him.</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">Richard</span>: It was fortunate that we met at the station.</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">Jackie</span>: I’m frightfully glad. I should have been terrified arriving all by myself.</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">Richard</span>: I do hope the weather will keep good over Sunday—the country round here is delightful.</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">Jackie</span>: Yes.</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">Richard</span>: There’s nowhere like England in the spring and summer.</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">Jackie</span>: No, there isn’t, is there?</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">Richard</span>: There’s a sort of <i>quality</i> you find in no other countries.</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">Jackie</span>: Have you travelled a lot?</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">Richard</span> (<i>modestly</i>): A good deal.</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">Jackie</span>: How lovely.</p>
			<div class="direction">
				<p>[<i>There is a pause.</i></p>
			</div>
			<p><span class="smcap">Richard</span>: Spain is very beautiful.</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">Jackie</span>: Yes, I’ve always heard Spain was awfully nice.</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">Richard</span>: Except for the bull-fights. No one who ever really loved horses could enjoy a bull-fight.</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">Jackie</span>: Nor anyone who loved bulls either.</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">Richard</span>: Exactly.</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">Jackie</span>: Italy’s awfully nice, isn’t it?</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">Richard</span>: Oh, yes, charming.</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">Jackie</span>: I’ve always wanted to go to Italy.</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">Richard</span>: Rome is a beautiful city.</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">Jackie</span>: Yes, I’ve always heard Rome was lovely.</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">Richard</span>: And Naples and Capri—Capri’s enchanting.</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">Jackie</span>: It must be.</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">Richard</span>: Have you ever been abroad at all?</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">Jackie</span>: Oh, yes; I went to Dieppe once—we had a house there for the summer.</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">Richard</span> (<i>kindly</i>): Dear little place—Dieppe.</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">Jackie</span>: Yes, it was lovely.</p>
			<div class="direction">
				<p>[<i><span class="smcap">Judith</span> comes downstairs, followed by <span class="smcap">Sandy</span>, with his arms full of cushions. She motions him out into the garden, sits down and puts on her goloshes, and then follows him.</i></p>
			</div>
			<p><span class="smcap">Jackie</span>: Well!</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">Richard</span>: Russia used to be a wonderful country before the war.</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">Jackie</span>: It must have been.... Was that her?</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">Richard</span>: Who?</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">Jackie</span>: Judith Bliss.</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">Richard</span>: Yes, I expect it was.</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">Jackie</span>: I wish I’d never come.</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">Richard</span>: You mustn’t worry. They’re a very Bohemian family, I believe.</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">Jackie</span>: I wonder if Mr. Bliss knows I’m here.</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">Richard</span>: I wonder.</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">Jackie</span>: Couldn’t we ring a bell, or anything?</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">Richard</span>: Yes, perhaps we’d better. (<i>He finds bell and presses it.</i>)</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">Jackie</span>: I don’t suppose it rings.</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">Richard</span>: You mustn’t be depressed.</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">Jackie</span>: I feel horrid.</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">Richard</span>: It’s always a little embarrassing coming to a strange house for the first time. You’ll like Sorel—she’s charming.</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">Jackie</span> (<i>desperately</i>): I wonder where she is.</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">Richard</span> (<i>consolingly</i>): I expect tea will be here soon.</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">Jackie</span>: Do you think they <i>have</i> tea?</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">Richard</span> (<i>alarmed</i>): Oh, yes—they must.</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">Jackie</span>: Oh, well, we’d better go on waiting, then. (<i>She sits down.</i>)</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">Richard</span>: Do you mind if I smoke?</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">Jackie</span>: Not a bit.</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">Richard</span>: Will you?</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">Jackie</span>: No, thank you.</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">Richard</span> (<i>sitting down</i>): I got this case in Japan. It’s pretty, isn’t it?</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">Jackie</span>: Awfully pretty.</p>
			<div class="direction">
				<p>[<i>They lapse into hopeless silence.</i></p>
				<p>[<i>Enter <span class="smcap">Sorel</span>, down stairs.</i></p>
			</div>
			<p><span class="smcap">Sorel</span>: Oh, Richard, I’m dreadfully sorry. I didn’t know you were here.</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">Richard</span>: We’ve been here a good while.</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">Sorel</span>: How awful! Please forgive me. I was upstairs.</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">Richard</span>: This is Miss Coryton.</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">Sorel</span>: Oh!</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">Jackie</span>: How-do-you-do.</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">Sorel</span>: Have you come to see Father?</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">Jackie</span>: Yes.</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">Sorel</span>: He’s in his study—you’d better go up.</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">Jackie</span>: I don’t know the way.</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">Sorel</span> (<i>irritably</i>): Oh, well—I’ll take you. Come on. Wait a minute, Richard. (<i>She takes her to the top of the stairs.</i>) It’s along that passage, and the third door on the right.</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">Jackie</span>: Oh, thank you. (<i>She goes out despondently.</i>)</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">Sorel</span> (<i>coming down again</i>): The poor girl looks half-witted.</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">Richard</span>: She’s shy, I think.</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">Sorel</span>: I hope Father will find her a comfort.</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">Richard</span>: Tell me one thing, Sorel, did your Father and Mother know I was coming?</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">Sorel</span>: Oh, yes; they were awfully pleased.</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">Richard</span>: A rather nice-looking woman came down, in a big hat, and went into the garden with a young man, without saying a word.</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">Sorel</span>: That was Mother, I expect. We’re an independent family—we entertain our friends sort of separately.</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">Richard</span>: Oh, I see.</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">Sorel</span>: It was sweet of you to come.</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">Richard</span>: I wanted to come—I’ve thought about you a lot.</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">Sorel</span>: Have you really? That’s thrilling.</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">Richard</span>: I mean it. You’re so alive and vital and different from other people.</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">Sorel</span>: I’m so frightened that you’ll be bored here.</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">Richard</span>: Why should I be?</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">Sorel</span>: Oh, I don’t know. But you won’t be, will you?—or if you are, tell me at once, and we’ll do something quite different.</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">Richard</span>: You’re rather a dear, you know.</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">Sorel</span>: I’m not—I’m devastating, entirely lacking in restraint. So’s Simon. It’s Father’s and Mother’s fault really; you see, they’re so vague—they’ve spent their lives cultivating their Arts and not devoting any time to ordinary conventions and manners and things. I’m the only one who sees that, so I’m trying to be better. I’d love to be beautifully poised and carry off difficult situations with a lift of the eyebrows——</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">Richard</span>: I’m sure you could carry off anything.</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">Sorel</span>: There you are, you see, saying the right thing! You always say the right thing, and no one knows a bit what you’re really thinking. That’s what I adore.</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">Richard</span>: I’m afraid to say anything now, in case you think I’m only being correct.</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">Sorel</span>: But you are correct. I wish you’d teach Simon to be correct too.</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">Richard</span>: It would be uphill work, I’m afraid.</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">Sorel</span>: Why, don’t you like him?</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">Richard</span>: I’ve only met him for a moment.</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">Sorel</span>: Would you like to see the garden?</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">Richard</span>: Very much indeed.</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">Sorel</span>: As a matter of fact, we’d better wait until after tea. Shall I sing you something?</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">Richard</span>: Please—I should love it.</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">Sorel</span>: I don’t want to really a bit—only I’m trying to entertain you. It’s as easy as pie to talk in someone else’s house, like at the dance the other night, but here on my own ground I’m finding it difficult.</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">Richard</span> (<i>puzzled</i>): I’m sorry.</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">Sorel</span>: Oh, it isn’t your fault; honestly, it isn’t—you’re awfully kind and responsive. What shall we do?</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">Richard</span>: I’m quite happy talking—to you.</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">Sorel</span>: Can you play Mah Jong?</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">Richard</span>: No, I’m afraid I can’t.</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">Sorel</span>: I’m <i>so</i> glad—I <i>do</i> hate it so.</p>
			<div class="direction">
				<p>[<i><span class="smcap">Clara</span> enters, with preparations for tea. <span class="smcap">Sorel</span> sighs with relief.</i></p>
			</div>
			<p class="noindent">Here’s tea.</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">Clara</span>: Where’s your Mother, dear?</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">Sorel</span>: Out in the garden, I think.</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">Clara</span>: It’s starting to rain.</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">Sorel</span>: Oh, everyone will come dashing in, then. How awful!</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">Richard</span>: Won’t the luggage get rather wet, out there?</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">Sorel</span>: What luggage?</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">Clara</span>: I’ll bring it in when I’ve made the tea.</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">Richard</span> (<i>rising</i>): Oh, don’t trouble; I’ll do it now.</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">Sorel</span>: We ought to have got William up from the village.</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">Clara</span>: It’s Saturday.</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">Sorel</span>: I know it is.</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">Clara</span>: He’s playing cricket.</p>
			<div class="direction">
				<p>[<i><span class="smcap">Richard</span> opens the front door and proceeds to bring the luggage in. <span class="smcap">Sorel</span> rushes to help him.</i></p>
			</div>
			<p><span class="smcap">Sorel</span>: Do sit down and smoke. I can easily manage it.</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">Richard</span>: Certainly not.</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">Sorel</span>: How typical of Myra to have so many bags.... Ooh!</p>
			<div class="direction">
				<p>[<i>She staggers with a suit-case. <span class="smcap">Richard</span> goes to her assistance, and they both drop it.</i></p>
			</div>
			<p class="noindent">There now!—we’ve probably broken something.</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">Richard</span>: This is the last one.... (<i>He brings in a dressing-case, and wipes his hand on his handkerchief.</i>)</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">Sorel</span>: Do you know where to wash if you want to?</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">Richard</span>: No—but I’m all right.</p>
			<div class="direction">
				<p>[<i>Re-enter <span class="smcap">Clara</span>, with tea and hot-water jug.</i></p>
				<p>[<i><span class="smcap">Simon</span> and <span class="smcap">Myra</span> come in from the garden.</i></p>
			</div>
			<p><span class="smcap">Myra</span>: Hullo, Sorel, how are you?</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">Sorel</span>: I’m splendid. Do you know Mr. Greatham?</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">Myra</span>: Oh, yes; we’ve met several times.</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">Simon</span>: Come and sit down, Myra.</p>
			<div class="direction">
				<p>[<i><span class="smcap">David</span> and <span class="smcap">Jackie</span> come downstairs.</i></p>
			</div>
			<p><span class="smcap">David</span>: Is tea ready?</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">Sorel</span>: Yes; just.</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">David</span>: Simon, come and be nice to Miss Coryton.</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">Simon</span>: We’ve met already.</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">David</span>: That’s no reason for you not to be nice to her.</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">Myra</span> (<i>firmly</i>): How-do-you-do.</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">David</span>: How-do-you-do. Are you staying here?</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">Myra</span>: I hope so.</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">David</span>: You must forgive me for being rather frowsy, but I’ve been working hard.</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">Sorel</span>: Father, this is Mr. Greatham.</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">David</span>: How are you? When did you arrive?</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">Richard</span>: This afternoon.</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">David</span>: Good. Have some tea. (<i>He begins to pour it out.</i>) Everyone had better put their own sugar and milk in, or we shall get muddled. Where’s your mother, Simon?</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">Simon</span>: She was last seen in the punt.</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">David</span>: How extraordinary! She can’t punt.</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">Sorel</span>: Sandy Tyrell’s with her.</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">David</span>: Oh, well, she’ll be all right then. Who is he?</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">Sorel</span>: I don’t know.</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">David</span>: Do sit down, everybody.</p>
			<div class="direction">
				<p>[<i>Enter <span class="smcap">Judith</span> and <span class="smcap">Sandy</span> from the garden.</i></p>
			</div>
			<p><span class="smcap">Judith</span>: There’s going to be a thunderstorm. I felt sick this morning. This is Sandy Tyrell—Everybody——</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">Richard</span> (<i>shaking hands</i>): How-do-you-do.</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">Sorel</span>: Mother, I want you to meet Mr. Greatham.</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">Judith</span>: Oh, yes. You were here before, weren’t you?</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">Simon</span>: Before <i>what</i>, darling?</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">Judith</span>: Before I went out in the punt. There was somebody else here too—a fair girl——(<i>She sees <span class="smcap">Jackie</span>.</i>) Oh, there you are. How-do-you-do. Sit down, Sandy, and eat anything you want. Give Sandy some bread-and-butter, Simon.</p>
			<div class="direction">
				<p>[<i>Everybody sits down.</i></p>
			</div>
			<p><span class="smcap">Simon</span> (<i>ungraciously</i>): Here you are.</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">Sandy</span>: Thanks.</p>
			<div class="direction">
				<p>[<i>There is a long pause; then <span class="smcap">Myra</span> and <span class="smcap">Richard</span> speak together.</i></p>
			</div>
			<table class="inline">
				<tbody>
					<tr>
						<td>
							<p><span class="smcap">Richard</span>:</p>
						</td>
						<td class="tdr">
							<p>}</p>
						</td>
						<td>
							<p>How far are you from Maidenhead exactly?</p>
						</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td>
							<p><span class="smcap">Myra</span>:</p>
						</td>
						<td class="tdr">
							<p>}</p>
						</td>
						<td>
							<p>What a pity it’s raining—we might have had some tennis——</p>
						</td>
					</tr>
				</tbody>
			</table>
			<div class="direction">
				<p>[<i>They both stop, to let the other go on. There is another terrible silence.</i></p>
			</div>
			<table class="inline">
				<tbody>
					<tr>
						<td>
							<p><span class="smcap">Myra</span>:</p>
						</td>
						<td class="tdr">
							<p>}</p>
						</td>
						<td>
							<p>I adore the shape of this hall—it’s so——</p>
						</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td>
							<p><span class="smcap">Richard</span>:</p>
						</td>
						<td class="tdr">
							<p>}</p>
						</td>
						<td>
							<p>The train was awfully crowded coming down——</p>
						</td>
					</tr>
				</tbody>
			</table>
			<div class="direction">
				<p>[<i>They both stop again, and there is another dead silence, during which</i></p>
			</div>
			<p class="center">
				<span class="smcap">The Curtain Slowly Falls.</span>
			</p>
		</section>
	</body>
</html>
