<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/, se: https://standardebooks.org/vocab/1.0" xml:lang="en-GB">
	<head>
		<title>Act III</title>
		<link href="../css/core.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
		<link href="../css/local.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
	</head>
	<body epub:type="bodymatter z3998:drama z3998:fiction">
		<section id="act-3" epub:type="chapter z3998:scene">
			<h2>
				<span epub:type="label">Act</span>
				<span epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">III</span>
			</h2>
			<div class="scene">
				<p>
					<i>It is Sunday morning, about ten o’clock. There are various breakfast dishes on a side table, and a big table is laid down centre.</i>
				</p>
			</div>
			<div class="direction">
				<p>[<i><span class="smcap">Sandy</span> appears at the top of the stairs. On seeing no one about, he comes down quickly and furtively helps himself to eggs and bacon and coffee, and seats himself at the table. He eats very hurriedly, casting occasional glances over his shoulder. A door bangs somewhere upstairs, which terrifies him; he chokes violently. When he has recovered, he tears a bit of toast from a rack, butters it and marmalades it, and crams it into his mouth. Then, hearing somebody approaching, he darts into the library.</i></p>
				<p>[<i><span class="smcap">Jackie</span> comes downstairs timorously; her expression is dismal, to say the least of it. She looks miserably out of the window at the pouring rain, then, assuming an air of spurious bravado, she helps herself to some breakfast and sits down and looks at it. After one or two attempts to eat it, she bursts into tears.</i></p>
				<p>[<i><span class="smcap">Sandy</span> opens the library door a crack, and peeps out. <span class="smcap">Jackie</span>, seeing the door move, screams. <span class="smcap">Sandy</span> re-enters.</i></p>
			</div>
			<p><span class="smcap">Jackie</span>: Oh, it’s only you—you frightened me!</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">Sandy</span>: What’s the matter?</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">Jackie</span> (<i>sniffing</i>): Nothing.</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">Sandy</span>: I say, don’t cry.</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">Jackie</span>: I’m not crying.</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">Sandy</span>: You were—I heard you.</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">Jackie</span>: It’s this house. It gets on my nerves.</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">Sandy</span>: I don’t wonder—after last night.</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">Jackie</span>: What were you doing in the library just now?</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">Sandy</span>: Hiding.</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">Jackie</span>: Hiding?</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">Sandy</span>: Yes; I didn’t want to run up against any of the family.</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">Jackie</span>: I wish I’d never come. I had horrible nightmares with all those fearful dragons crawling across the wall.</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">Sandy</span>: Dragons?</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">Jackie</span>: Yes; I’m in a Japanese room—everything in it’s Japanese, even the bed.</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">Sandy</span>: How awful!</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">Jackie</span>: I believe they’re all mad, you know.</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">Sandy</span>: The Blisses?</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">Jackie</span>: Yes—they must be.</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">Sandy</span>: I’ve been thinking that too.</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">Jackie</span>: Do you suppose they know they’re mad?</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">Sandy</span>: No; people never do.</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">Jackie</span>: It was Mr. Bliss asked me down, and he hasn’t paid any attention to me at all. I went into his study soon after I arrived yesterday, and he said, “Who the hell are you?”</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">Sandy</span>: Didn’t he remember?</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">Jackie</span>: He did afterwards; then he brought me down to tea and left me.</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">Sandy</span>: Are you really engaged to Simon?</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">Jackie</span> (<i>bursting into tears again</i>): Oh, no—I hope not!</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">Sandy</span>: You were, last night.</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">Jackie</span>: So were you—to Sorel.</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">Sandy</span>: Not properly. We talked it over.</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">Jackie</span>: I don’t know what happened to me. I was in the garden with Simon, and he was being awfully sweet, and then he suddenly kissed me, and rushed into the house and said we were engaged—and that hateful Judith asked me to make him happy!</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">Sandy</span>: That’s exactly what happened to me and Sorel. Judith gave us to one another before we knew where we were.</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">Jackie</span>: How frightful!</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">Sandy</span>: I like Sorel, though; she was jolly decent about it afterwards.</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">Jackie</span>: I think she’s a cat.</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">Sandy</span>: Why?</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">Jackie</span>: Look at the way she lost her temper over that beastly game.</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">Sandy</span>: All the same, she’s better than the others.</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">Jackie</span>: That wouldn’t be very difficult.</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">Sandy</span>: Hic!</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">Jackie</span>: I beg your pardon?</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">Sandy</span> (<i>abashed</i>): I say—I’ve got hiccoughs.</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">Jackie</span>: Hold your breath.</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">Sandy</span>: It was because I bolted my breakfast. (<i>He holds his breath.</i>)</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">Jackie</span>: Hold it as long as you can.</p>
			<div class="direction">
				<p>[<i>There is a pause.</i></p>
			</div>
			<p><span class="smcap">Sandy</span> (<i>letting his breath go with a gasp</i>): I can’t any more—hic!</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">Jackie</span>: Eat a lump of sugar.</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">Sandy</span> (<i>taking one</i>): I’m awfully sorry.</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">Jackie</span>: I don’t mind—but it’s a horrid feeling, isn’t it?</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">Sandy</span>: Horrid—hic!</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">Jackie</span> (<i>conversationally</i>): People have died from hiccoughs, you know.</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">Sandy</span> (<i>gloomily</i>): Have they?</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">Jackie</span>: Yes. An aunt of mine once had them for three days without stopping.</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">Sandy</span>: How beastly.</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">Jackie</span> (<i>with relish</i>): She had to have the doctor, and everything.</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">Sandy</span>: I expect mine will stop soon.</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">Jackie</span>: I hope they will.</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">Sandy</span>: Hic!—There!</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">Jackie</span>: Drink some water the wrong way round.</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">Sandy</span>: How do you mean—the wrong way round?</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">Jackie</span> (<i>rising</i>): The wrong side of the glass. I’ll show you. (<i>She goes to side table.</i>) There isn’t any water.</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">Sandy</span>: Perhaps coffee would do as well.</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">Jackie</span>: I’ve never tried coffee, but it might. (<i>She pours him out some.</i>) There you are.</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">Sandy</span> (<i>anxiously</i>): What do I do?</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">Jackie</span>: Tip it up and drink from the opposite side, sort of upside down.</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">Sandy</span> (<i>trying</i>): I can’t reach any——</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">Jackie</span> (<i>suddenly</i>): Look out—somebody’s coming. Bring it into the library—quick....</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">Sandy</span>: Bring the sugar—I might need it again—hic! Oh God!</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">Jackie</span>: All right.</p>
			<div class="direction">
				<p>[<i>They go off into the library hurriedly.</i></p>
				<p>[<i><span class="smcap">Richard</span> comes downstairs. He glances round a trifle anxiously; then, pulling himself together, he goes boldly to the barometer and taps it. It falls off the wall and breaks; he picks it up quickly and places it on the piano. Then he helps himself to some breakfast, and sits down.</i></p>
				<p>[<i><span class="smcap">Myra</span> appears on the stairs, very smart and bright.</i></p>
			</div>
			<p><span class="smcap">Myra</span> (<i>vivaciously</i>): Good morning.</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">Richard</span>: Good morning.</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">Myra</span>: Are we the first down?</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">Richard</span>: No, I don’t think so.</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">Myra</span> (<i>looking out of the window</i>): Isn’t this rain miserable?</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">Richard</span>: Appalling!</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">Myra</span>: Where’s the barometer?</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">Richard</span>: On the piano.</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">Myra</span>: What a queer place for it to be.</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">Richard</span>: I tapped it, and it fell down.</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">Myra</span>: Typical of this house. (<i>At side table</i>) Are you having eggs and bacon, or haddock?</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">Richard</span>: Haddock.</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">Myra</span>: I’ll have haddock too. I simply couldn’t strike out a line for myself this morning. (<i>She helps herself to haddock and coffee, and sits down opposite <span class="smcap">Richard</span>.</i>) Have you seen anybody?</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">Richard</span>: No.</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">Myra</span>: Good. We might have a little peace.</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">Richard</span>: Have you ever stayed here before?</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">Myra</span>: No, and I never will again.</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">Richard</span>: I feel far from well this morning.</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">Myra</span>: I’m so sorry, but not entirely surprised.</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">Richard</span>: You see, I had the boiler room.</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">Myra</span>: How terrible!</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">Richard</span>: The window stuck, and I couldn’t open it—I was nearly suffocated. The pipes made peculiar noises all night, as well.</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">Myra</span>: There isn’t any sugar.</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">Richard</span>: Oh—we’d better ring.</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">Myra</span>: I doubt if it will be the slightest use, but we’ll try.</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">Richard</span> (<i>ringing and ringing bell</i>): Do the whole family have breakfast in bed?</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">Myra</span>: I neither know—nor care.</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">Richard</span>: They’re strange people, aren’t they?</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">Myra</span>: I think “strange” is putting it mildly.</p>
			<div class="direction">
				<p>[<i>Enter <span class="smcap">Clara</span>.</i></p>
			</div>
			<p><span class="smcap">Clara</span>: What’s the matter?</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">Myra</span>: There isn’t any sugar.</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">Clara</span>: There is—I put it ’ere myself.</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">Myra</span>: Perhaps you’d find it for us, then?</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">Clara</span> (<i>searching</i>): That’s very funny. I could ’ave sworn on me Bible oath I brought it in.</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">Myra</span>: Well, it obviously isn’t here now.</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">Clara</span>: Someone’s taken it—that’s what it is.</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">Richard</span>: It seems a queer thing to do.</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">Myra</span>: Do you think you could get us some more?</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">Clara</span>: Oh, yes, I’ll fetch you some; but mark my words, there’s been some ’anky-panky somewhere. (<i>She goes out.</i>)</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">Myra</span>: Clara is really more at home in a dressing-room than a house.</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">Richard</span>: Was she Judith’s dresser?</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">Myra</span>: Of course. What other excuse could there possibly be for her?</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">Richard</span>: She seems good-natured, but quaint.</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">Myra</span>: This haddock’s disgusting.</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">Richard</span>: It isn’t very nice, is it?</p>
			<div class="direction">
				<p>[<i>Re-enter <span class="smcap">Clara</span> with sugar. She plumps it down.</i></p>
			</div>
			<p><span class="smcap">Clara</span>: There you are, dear.</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">Myra</span>: Thank you.</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">Clara</span>: It’s a shame the weather’s changed—you might ’ave ’ad such fun up the river.</p>
			<div class="direction">
				<p>[<i>There comes the sound of a crash from the library, and a scream.</i></p>
			</div>
			<p class="noindent">What’s that? (<i>She opens the door.</i>) Come out! What are you doing?</p>
			<div class="direction">
				<p>[<i><span class="smcap">Jackie</span> and <span class="smcap">Sandy</span> enter, rather shamefaced.</i></p>
			</div>
			<p><span class="smcap">Jackie</span>: Good morning. I’m afraid we’ve broken a coffee-cup.</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">Clara</span>: Was there any coffee in it?</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">Sandy</span>: Yes, a good deal.</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">Clara</span> (<i>rushing into the library</i>): Oh dear! all over the carpet!</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">Sandy</span>: It was my fault. I’m most awfully sorry.</p>
			<div class="direction">
				<p>[<i><span class="smcap">Clara</span> reappears.</i></p>
			</div>
			<p><span class="smcap">Clara</span>: How did you come to do it?</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">Jackie</span>: Well, you see, he had the hiccoughs, and I was showing him how to drink upside down.</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">Myra</span>: How ridiculous!</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">Clara</span>: Well, thank ’Eaven it wasn’t one of the Crown Derbys. (<i>She goes out.</i>)</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">Sandy</span>: They’ve gone now, anyhow.</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">Jackie</span>: It was the sudden shock, I expect.</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">Sandy</span> (<i>observantly</i>): I say—it’s raining!</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">Myra</span>: It’s been raining for hours.</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">Richard</span>: Mrs. Arundel——</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">Myra</span>: Yes?</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">Richard</span>: What are you going to do about—about to-day?</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">Myra</span>: Nothing, except go up to London by the first train possible.</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">Richard</span>: Do you mind if I come too? I don’t think I could face another day like yesterday.</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">Jackie</span>: Neither could I.</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">Sandy</span> (<i>eagerly</i>): Let’s all go away—quietly!</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">Richard</span>: Won’t it seem a little rude if we <i>all</i> go?</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">Myra</span>: Yes it will. (<i>To <span class="smcap">Sandy</span></i>) You and Miss Coryton must stay.</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">Jackie</span>: I don’t see why.</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">Sandy</span>: I don’t think they’d mind <i>very</i> much if we all went.</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">Myra</span>: Yes, they would. You must let Mr. Greatham and me get away first, anyhow. Ring for Clara. I want to find out about trains.</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">Richard</span>: I hope they won’t all come down now.</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">Myra</span>: You needn’t worry about that; they’re sure to roll about in bed for hours—they’re such a slovenly family.</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">Richard</span>: Have you got much packing to do?</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">Myra</span>: No; I did most of it before I came down.</p>
			<div class="direction">
				<p>[<i>Re-enter <span class="smcap">Clara</span>.</i></p>
			</div>
			<p><span class="smcap">Clara</span>: What is it now?</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">Myra</span>: Can you tell me what trains there are up to London?</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">Clara</span>: When?</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">Myra</span>: This morning.</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">Clara</span>: Why?—you’re not leaving, are you?</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">Myra</span>: Yes; Mr. Greatham and I have to be up by lunch-time.</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">Clara</span>: Well, you have missed the 10.15.</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">Myra</span>: Obviously.</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">Clara</span>: There isn’t another till 12.30.</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">Richard</span>: Good heavens!</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">Clara</span>: And that’s a slow one. (<i>She goes out.</i>)</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">Sandy</span> (<i>to <span class="smcap">Jackie</span></i>): Look here; I’ll take you up in my car as soon as you like.</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">Jackie</span>: All right; lovely!</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">Myra</span>: You’ve got a car, haven’t you?</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">Sandy</span>: Yes.</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">Myra</span>: Will it hold all of us?</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">Jackie</span>: You said it would be rude for us all to go. Hadn’t you and Mr. Greatham better wait for the train?</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">Myra</span>: Certainly not.</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">Richard</span> (<i>to <span class="smcap">Sandy</span></i>): If there is room, we should be very, very grateful.</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">Sandy</span>: I think I can squeeze you in.</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">Myra</span>: Then that’s settled, then.</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">Jackie</span>: When shall we start?</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">Sandy</span>: As soon as you’re ready.</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">Jackie</span>: Mrs. Arundel, what are you going to do about tipping Clara?</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">Myra</span>: I don’t know. (<i>To <span class="smcap">Richard</span></i>) What do you think?</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">Richard</span>: I’ve hardly seen her since I’ve been here.</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">Jackie</span>: Isn’t there a housemaid or anything?</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">Richard</span>: I don’t think so.</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">Sandy</span>: Is ten bob enough?</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">Jackie</span>: Each?</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">Myra</span>: Too much.</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">Richard</span>: We’d better give her one pound ten between us.</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">Myra</span>: Very well, then. Will you do it, and we’ll settle up in the car?</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">Richard</span>: Must I?</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">Myra</span>: Yes. Ring for her.</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">Richard</span>: You’d do it much better.</p>
			<div class="direction">
				<p>[<i><span class="smcap">Sandy</span> rings the bell.</i></p>
			</div>
			<p><span class="smcap">Myra</span>: Oh, no, I shouldn’t. (<i>To <span class="smcap">Jackie</span></i>) Come on; we’ll finish our packing.</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">Jackie</span>: All right.</p>
			<div class="direction">
				<p>[<i>They begin to go upstairs.</i></p>
			</div>
			<p><span class="smcap">Richard</span>: Here—don’t leave me.</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">Sandy</span>: I’ll just go and look at the car. Will you all be ready in ten minutes?</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">Myra</span>: Yes, ten minutes. (<i>She goes off with <span class="smcap">Jackie</span>.</i>)</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">Sandy</span>: Righto. (<i>He rushes out.</i>)</p>
			<div class="direction">
				<p>[<i><span class="smcap">Clara</span> re-enters.</i></p>
			</div>
			<p><span class="smcap">Clara</span>: ’Allo, where’s everybody gone?</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">Richard</span>: They’ve gone to get ready. We’re leaving in Mr. Tyrell’s car.</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">Clara</span>: A bit sudden, isn’t it?</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">Richard</span> (<i>pressing money into her hand</i>): This is from all of us, Clara. Thank you very much for all your trouble.</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">Clara</span> (<i>surprised</i>): Aren’t you a dear, now! There wasn’t any trouble.</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">Richard</span>: There must have been a lot of extra work.</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">Clara</span>: One gets used to that ’ere.</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">Richard</span>: Good-bye, Clara. (<i>He goes upstairs.</i>)</p>
			<div class="direction">
				<p>[<i><span class="smcap">Clara</span> proceeds to clear away the dirty breakfast things, which she takes out. She returns with a fresh pot of coffee, and meets <span class="smcap">Judith</span> coming downstairs.</i></p>
			</div>
			<p><span class="smcap">Judith</span>: Good morning, Clara. Have the papers come?</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">Clara</span>: Yes—I’ll fetch them. (<i>She goes out.</i>)</p>
			<div class="direction">
				<p>[<i><span class="smcap">Judith</span> pours herself out some coffee, and sits down.</i></p>
				<p>[<i><span class="smcap">Clara</span> re-enters with papers.</i></p>
			</div>
			<p><span class="smcap">Judith</span>: Thank you. You’ve forgotten my orange juice.</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">Clara</span>: No, I ’aven’t, dear; it’s just outside. (<i>She goes out again.</i>)</p>
			<div class="direction">
				<p>[<i><span class="smcap">Judith</span> turns to the theatrical column of the “Sunday Times.”</i></p>
				<p>[<i><span class="smcap">Sorel</span> comes downstairs and kisses her.</i></p>
			</div>
			<p><span class="smcap">Sorel</span>: Good morning, darling.</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">Judith</span>: Listen to this. (<i>She reads</i>) “We saw Judith Bliss in a box at the Haymarket on Tuesday, looking as lovely as ever.” There now! I thought I looked hideous on Tuesday.</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">Sorel</span>: You looked sweet. (<i>She goes to get herself some breakfast.</i>)</p>
			<div class="direction">
				<p>[<i><span class="smcap">Clara</span> reappears, with a glass of orange juice.</i></p>
			</div>
			<p><span class="smcap">Clara</span> (<i>placing it in front of <span class="smcap">Judith</span></i>): Did you see that nice bit in <i>The Referee</i>?</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">Judith</span>: No—<i>The Times</i>.</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">Clara</span>: <i>The Referee’s</i> much better. (<i>She finds the place and hands it to <span class="smcap">Sorel</span>.</i>)</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">Sorel</span> (<i>reading</i>): “I saw gay and colourful Judith Bliss at the Waifs and Strays Matinée last week. She was talking vivaciously to Producer Basil Dean. ‘I’ sooth,’ said I to myself, ‘where ignorance is Bliss, ’tis folly to be wise.’”</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">Judith</span> (<i>taking it from her</i>): Dear <i>Referee</i>! It’s so unself-conscious.</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">Clara</span>: If you want any more coffee, ring for it. (<i>She goes out.</i>)</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">Sorel</span> (<i>sitting down</i>): I wish I were sitting on a lovely South Sea island, with masses of palm trees and cocoanuts and turtles——</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">Judith</span>: It would be divine, wouldn’t it?</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">Sorel</span>: I wonder where everybody is?</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">Judith</span> (<i>still reading</i>): I wonder.... Mary Saunders has got another failure.</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">Sorel</span>: She must be used to it by now.</p>
			<div class="direction">
				<p>[<i><span class="smcap">Simon</span> comes downstairs with a rush.</i></p>
			</div>
			<p><span class="smcap">Simon</span> (<i>kissing <span class="smcap">Judith</span></i>): Good morning, darling.—Look! (<i>He shows her a newly completed sketch.</i>)</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">Judith</span>: Simon! How lovely! When did you do it?</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">Simon</span>: This morning—I woke early.</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">Sorel</span> (<i>rising and craning over <span class="smcap">Judith’s</span> shoulder</i>): Let’s see.</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">Simon</span> (<i>over the other shoulder</i>): I’m going to alter Helen’s face; it’s too pink.</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">Sorel</span> (<i>laughing</i>): It’s exactly like her.</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">Judith</span>: What a clever son I have!</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">Simon</span>: Now then, Mother!</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">Judith</span>: It’s too wonderful—when I think of you both in your perambulators.... Oh dear, it makes me cry! (<i>She sniffs.</i>)</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">Sorel</span>: I don’t believe you ever saw us in our perambulators.</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">Judith</span>: I don’t believe I did.</p>
			<div class="direction">
				<p>[<i><span class="smcap">David</span> comes downstairs.</i></p>
			</div>
			<p><span class="smcap">David</span> (<i>hilariously</i>): It’s finished!</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">Judith</span>: What, dear?</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">David</span>: <i>The Sinful Woman.</i></p>
			<p><span class="smcap">Judith</span>: How splendid. Read it to us now.</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">David</span>: I’ve got the last chapter here.</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">Judith</span>: Go on, then.</p>
			<div class="direction">
				<p>[<i><span class="smcap">Sandy</span> rushes in from the front door. On seeing everyone, he halts.</i></p>
			</div>
			<p><span class="smcap">Sandy</span>: Good morning. (<i>He bolts upstairs two at a time.</i>)</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">Judith</span>: I seem to know that boy’s face.</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">David</span> (<i>preparing to read</i>): Listen. You remember when Violet was taken ill in Paris?</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">Judith</span>: Yes, dear.—Marmalade, Simon.</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">David</span>: Well, I’ll go on from there.</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">Judith</span>: Do, dear.</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">David</span> (<i>reading</i>): “Paris in spring, with the Champs Elysées alive and dancing in the sunlight; lightly dressed children like gay painted butterflies——”</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">Simon</span> (<i>whispering to <span class="smcap">Sorel</span></i>): What’s happened to the barometer?</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">Sorel</span> (<i>sibilantly</i>): I don’t know.</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">David</span>: Damn the barometer!</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">Judith</span>: Don’t get cross, dear.</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">David</span>: Why can’t you keep quiet, Simon, or go away!</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">Simon</span>: Sorry, Father.</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">David</span>: Well, don’t interrupt again.... (<i>Reading</i>) “... gay painted butterflies; the streets were thronged with hurrying vehicles, the thin peek-peek of taxi-hooters——”</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">Sorel</span>: I love “peek-peek.”</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">David</span> (<i>ignoring her</i>): “——seemed to merge in with the other vivid noises weaving a vast pattern of sound which was Paris. Jane Sefton, in her scarlet Hispano, swept out of the Rue St. Honoré into the Place de la Concorde——”</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">Judith</span>: She couldn’t have.</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">David</span>: Why?</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">Judith</span>: The Rue St. Honoré doesn’t lead into the Place de la Concorde.</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">David</span>: Yes, it does.</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">Sorel</span>: You’re thinking of the Rue Boissy d’Anglas, Father.</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">David</span>: I’m not thinking of anything of the sort.</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">Judith</span>: David darling, don’t be obstinate.</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">David</span> (<i>hotly</i>): Do you think I don’t know Paris as well as you do?</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">Simon</span>: Never mind. Father’s probably right.</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">Sorel</span>: He isn’t right—he’s wrong!</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">David</span>: Go on with your food, Sorel.</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">Judith</span>: Don’t be testy, David: it’s a sign of age.</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">David</span> (<i>firmly</i>): “Jane Sefton, in her scarlet Hispano, swept out of the Rue St. Honoré into the Place de la Concorde——”</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">Judith</span>: That sounds absolutely ridiculous. Why don’t you alter it?</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">David</span>: It isn’t ridiculous; it’s perfectly right.</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">Judith</span>: Very well, then; get a map, and I’ll show you.</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">Simon</span>: We haven’t got a map.</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">David</span> (<i>putting his MS. down</i>): Now, look here, Judith—here’s the Rue Royale—(<i>He arranges the butter-dish and marmalade-pot.</i>)—here’s the Crillon Hotel, and <i>here’s</i> the Rue St. Honoré——</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">Judith</span>: It isn’t—it’s the Boissy d’Anglas.</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">David</span>: That runs parallel with the Rue de Rivoli.</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">Judith</span>: You’ve got it all muddled.</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">David</span> (<i>loudly</i>): I have <i>not</i> got it all muddled.</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">Judith</span>: Don’t shout. You have.</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">Simon</span>: Why not let Father get on with it?</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">Judith</span>: It’s so silly to get cross at criticism—it indicates a small mind.</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">David</span>: Small mind my foot!</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">Judith</span>: That was very rude. I shall go to my room in a minute.</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">David</span>: I wish you would.</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">Judith</span> (<i>outraged</i>): David!</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">Sorel</span>: Look here, Father, Mother’s right—here’s the Place de la Concorde——</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">Simon</span>: Oh, shut up, Sorel.</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">Sorel</span>: Shut up yourself, you pompous little beast.</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">Simon</span>: You think you know such a lot about everything, and you’re as ignorant as a frog.</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">Sorel</span>: Why a frog?</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">Judith</span>: I give you my solemn promise, David, that you’re wrong.</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">David</span>: I don’t want your solemn promise, because I <i>know</i> I’m right.</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">Simon</span>: It’s no use arguing with Father, Mother.</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">Sorel</span>: Why isn’t it any use arguing with Father?</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">Simon</span>: Because you’re both so pig-headed!</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">David</span>: Are you content to sit here, Judith, and let your son insult me?</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">Judith</span>: He’s your son as well as mine.</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">David</span>: I begin to doubt it.</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">Judith</span> (<i>bursting into tears of rage</i>): David!</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">Simon</span> (<i>consoling her</i>): Father, how can you!</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">David</span> (<i>rising</i>): I’ll never attempt to read any of you anything again as long as I live. You’re not a bit interested in my work, and you don’t give a damn whether I’m a success or a failure.</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">Judith</span>: You’re dead certain to be a failure if you cram your books with inaccuracies.</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">David</span> (<i>hammering the table with his fist</i>): <i>I am not inaccurate!</i></p>
			<p><span class="smcap">Judith</span>: Yes, you are; and you’re foul-tempered and spoilt.</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">David</span>: Spoilt! I like that! Nobody here spoils me—you’re the most insufferable family to live with——</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">Judith</span>: Well, why in Heaven’s name don’t you go and live somewhere else?</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">David</span>: There’s gratitude!</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">Judith</span>: Gratitude for what, I’d like to know?</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">Sorel</span>: Mother, keep calm.</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">Judith</span>: Calm! I’m furious.</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">David</span>: What have you got to be furious about? Everyone rushing round adoring you and saying how wonderful you are——</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">Judith</span>: I am wonderful, Heaven knows, to have stood you for all these years.</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">Sorel</span>: Mother, do sit down and be quiet.</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">Simon</span>: How dare you speak to Mother like that!</p>
			<div class="direction">
				<p>[<i>During this scene <span class="smcap">Myra</span>, <span class="smcap">Jackie</span>, <span class="smcap">Richard</span> and <span class="smcap">Sandy</span> creep downstairs, with their bags, unperceived by the family. They make for the front door.</i></p>
			</div>
			<p><span class="smcap">Judith</span> (<i>wailing</i>): Oh, oh! To think that my daughter should turn against me!</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">David</span>: Don’t be theatrical.</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">Judith</span>: I’m not theatrical—I’m wounded to the heart.</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">David</span>: Rubbish—rubbish—rubbish!</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">Judith</span>: Don’t you say Rubbish to me!</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">David</span>: I <i>will</i> say Rubbish!</p>
			<table class="inline">
				<tbody>
					<tr>
						<td>
							<p><span class="smcap">Sorel</span>:</p>
						</td>
						<td class="tdr">
							<p>}</p>
						</td>
						<td>
							<p>Ssshhh, Father!</p>
						</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td>
							<p><span class="smcap">Simon</span>:</p>
						</td>
						<td class="tdr">
							<p>}</p>
						</td>
						<td>
							<p>That’s right! Be the dutiful daughter and encourage your father——</p>
						</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td>
							<p><span class="smcap">David</span>:</p>
						</td>
						<td class="tdr">
							<p>}</p>
						</td>
						<td>
							<p>Listen to me, Judith——</p>
						</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td>
							<p><span class="smcap">Judith</span>:</p>
						</td>
						<td class="tdr">
							<p>}</p>
						</td>
						<td>
							<p>Oh, this is dreadful—dreadful!</p>
						</td>
					</tr>
					<tr class="pad-top">
						<td>
							<p><span class="smcap">Sorel</span>:</p>
						</td>
						<td class="tdr">
							<p>}</p>
						</td>
						<td>
							<p>The whole thing doesn’t really matter in the least——</p>
						</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td>
							<p><span class="smcap">Simon</span>:</p>
						</td>
						<td class="tdr">
							<p>}</p>
						</td>
						<td>
							<p>—to insult your mother——</p>
						</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td>
							<p><span class="smcap">David</span>:</p>
						</td>
						<td class="tdr">
							<p>}</p>
						</td>
						<td>
							<p>The Place de la Concorde——</p>
						</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td>
							<p><span class="smcap">Judith</span>:</p>
						</td>
						<td class="tdr">
							<p>}</p>
						</td>
						<td>
							<p>I never realised how small you were, David. You’re tiny——</p>
						</td>
					</tr>
				</tbody>
			</table>
			<div class="direction">
				<p>[<i>The universal pandemonium is suddenly broken by the front door slamming. There is dead silence for a moment, then the noise of a car is heard.</i></p>
				<p>[<i><span class="smcap">Sorel</span> runs and looks out of the window.</i></p>
			</div>
			<p><span class="smcap">Simon</span>: There now!</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">Sorel</span>: They’ve all gone!</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">Judith</span> (<i>sitting down</i>): How very rude!</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">David</span> (<i>also sitting down</i>): People really do behave in the most extraordinary manner these days——</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">Judith</span>: Come back and finish your breakfast, Sorel.</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">Sorel</span>: All right. (<i>She sits down.</i>)</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">Simon</span>: Toast, please, Sorel.</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">Sorel</span> (<i>passing it to him</i>): Here.</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">Judith</span>: Go on, David; I’m dying to hear the end——</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">David</span> (<i>reading</i>): “Jane Sefton, in her scarlet Hispano, swept out of the Rue Boissy d’Anglas into the Place Vêndome——”</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">Judith</span>: I meant to tell you before, David—I’ve made a great decision.</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">David</span> (<i>amiably</i>): What is it?</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">Judith</span>: I really am going to return to the stage!</p>
			<p class="center">
				<span class="smcap">Curtain.</span>
			</p>
		</section>
	</body>
</html>
