<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/, se: https://standardebooks.org/vocab/1.0" xml:lang="en-GB">
	<head>
		<title>Act II</title>
		<link href="../css/core.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
		<link href="../css/local.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
	</head>
	<body epub:type="bodymatter z3998:drama z3998:fiction">
		<section id="act-2" epub:type="chapter z3998:scene">
			<h2>
				<span epub:type="label">Act</span>
				<span epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">II</span>
			</h2>
			<div class="scene">
				<p class="center">
					<i>It is after dinner on the Saturday evening.</i>
				</p>
			</div>
			<div class="direction">
				<p>[<i>Everyone is talking and arguing.</i></p>
				<p>[<i>The following scene should be played with great speed.</i></p>
			</div>
			<p><span class="smcap">Simon</span>: Who’ll go out?</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">Sorel</span>: I don’t mind.</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">Simon</span>: No; you always guess it too quickly.</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">Jackie</span>: What do we have to do?</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">Judith</span>: Choose an adverb, and then——</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">Simon</span>: Someone goes out, you see, and comes in, and you’ve chosen a word among yourselves, and she or he or whoever it is asks you some sort of question and you have to——</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">Sorel</span>: Not an ordinary question, Simon; they have to ask them to do something in the manner of the word, and then——</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">Simon</span>: Then, you see, you act whatever it is——</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">Sorel</span>: The answer to the question, you see?</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">Richard</span> (<i>apprehensively</i>): What sort of thing is one expected to do?</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">Judith</span>: Quite usual things, like reciting “If,” or playing the piano——</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">Richard</span>: I can’t play the piano.</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">Simon</span>: Never mind; you can fake it, as long as it conveys an idea of the word.</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">Jackie</span>: The word we’ve all thought of?</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">Sorel</span> (<i>impatient</i>): Yes, the word we’ve chosen when whoever it is is out of the room.</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">Jackie</span>: I’m afraid I don’t quite understand yet.</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">Simon</span>: Never mind; I’ll explain. You see, someone goes out....</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">Sorel</span>: I’ll go out the first time, just to show her.</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">Judith</span>: It’s quite simple—all you have to do is just act in the manner of the word.</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">Sorel</span>: Look here, everybody, I’m going out.</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">Simon</span>: All right; go on.</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">Myra</span>: The History game’s awfully good—when two people go out, and come back as Queen Elizabeth and Crippen or somebody.</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">Sandy</span> (<i>despondently</i>): I’m no earthly good at this sort of thing.</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">Sorel</span>: I’ll show you, Sandy. You see....</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">Judith</span>: There’s always “How, When and Where?” We haven’t played that for ages.</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">Simon</span>: We will afterwards. We’ll do this one first.—Go on, Sorel.</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">Sorel</span>: Don’t be too long. (<i>She goes out.</i>)</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">Simon</span>: Now then.</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">Judith</span>: “Bitterly.”</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">Simon</span>: No, we did that last week; she’ll know.</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">David</span>: “Intensely.”</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">Judith</span>: Too difficult.</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">Richard</span>: There was an amusing game I played once at the Harringtons’ house. Everyone was blindfolded except——</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">Simon</span>: This room’s not big enough for that. What about “winsomely”?</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">Jackie</span>: I wish I knew what we had to do.</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">Judith</span>: You’ll see when we start playing.</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">Myra</span>: <i>If</i> we start playing.</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">Simon</span>: Mother’s brilliant at this. Do you remember when we played it at the Mackenzies’?</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">Judith</span>: Yes, and Blanche was so cross when I kissed Freddie’s ear in the manner of the word.</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">Richard</span>: What was the word?</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">Judith</span>: I can’t remember.</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">Myra</span>: Perhaps it’s as well.</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">David</span>: What about “drearily”?</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">Judith</span>: Not definite enough.</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">Simon</span>: “Winsomely” is the best.</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">Judith</span>: She’s sure to guess it straight off.</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">Simon</span> (<i>confidentially to <span class="smcap">Jackie</span></i>): These games are much too brainy for me.</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">David</span>: Young Norman Robertson used to be marvellous—do you remember?</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">Simon</span>: Yes, wonderful sense of humour.</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">Myra</span>: He’s lost it all since his marriage.</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">Judith</span>: I didn’t know you knew him.</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">Myra</span>: Well, considering he married my cousin——</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">Richard</span>: We don’t seem to be getting on with the game.</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">Judith</span>: We haven’t thought of a word yet.</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">Myra</span>: “Brightly.”</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">Simon</span>: Too obvious.</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">Myra</span>: Very well—don’t snap at me!</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">Judith</span>: “Saucily.” I’ve got a lovely idea for “saucily.”</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">Myra</span> (<i>at <span class="smcap">Simon</span></i>): I should think “rudely” would be the easiest.</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">Simon</span>: Don’t be sour, Myra.</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">Judith</span>: The great thing is to get an obscure word.</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">Simon</span>: What a pity Irene isn’t here—she knows masses of obscure words.</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">Myra</span>: She’s probably picked them up from her obscure friends.</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">Simon</span>: It’s no use being catty about Irene; she’s a perfect darling.</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">Myra</span>: I wasn’t being catty at all.</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">Simon</span>: Yes, you were.</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">Sorel</span> (<i>off</i>): Hurry up!</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">Judith</span>: Quickly, now! We must think——</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">Jackie</span> (<i>helpfully</i>): “Appendicitis.”</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">Judith</span> (<i>witheringly</i>): That’s not an adverb.</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">Simon</span>: You’re thinking of Charades.</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">Sandy</span>: Charades are damned good fun.</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">Simon</span>: Yes, but we don’t happen to be doing them at the moment.</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">Sandy</span>: Sorry.</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">Judith</span>: “Saucily.”</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">Simon</span>: No, “winsomely’s” better.</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">Judith</span>: All right. Call her in.</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">Simon</span> (<i>calling</i>): Sorel—come on; we’re ready.</p>
			<div class="direction">
				<p>[<i>Re-enter <span class="smcap">Sorel</span>.</i></p>
			</div>
			<p><span class="smcap">Sandy</span> (<i>hoarsely to <span class="smcap">Simon</span></i>): Which is it?—“saucily” or “winsomely”?</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">Simon</span> (<i>whispering</i>): “Winsomely.”</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">Sorel</span> (<i>to <span class="smcap">Judith</span></i>): Go and take a flower out of that vase and give it to Richard.</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">Judith</span>: Very well.</p>
			<div class="direction">
				<p>[<i>She trips lightly over to the vase, gurgling with coy laughter, selects a flower, then goes over to <span class="smcap">Richard</span>; pursing her lips into a mock smile, she gives him the flower, with a little girlish gasp at her own daring, and wags her finger archly at him.</i></p>
			</div>
			<p><span class="smcap">Simon</span>: Marvellous, Mother!</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">Sorel</span> (<i>laughing</i>): Oh, lovely!... Now, Myra, get up and say good-bye to everyone in the manner of the word.</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">Myra</span> (<i>rises and starts with <span class="smcap">David</span></i>): Good-bye. It really has been most delightful——</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">Judith</span>: No, no, no!</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">Myra</span>: Why—what do you mean?</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">Judith</span>: You haven’t got the right intonation a bit.</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">Simon</span>: Oh, Mother darling, do shut up!</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">Myra</span> (<i>acidly</i>): Remember what an advantage you have over we poor amateurs, Judith, having been a professional for so long.</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">Judith</span>: I don’t like “so long” very much.</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">Sorel</span>: Do you think we might go on now?</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">Myra</span>: Go to the next one; I’m not going to do any more.</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">Simon</span>: Oh, please do. You were simply splendid.</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">Sorel</span>: It doesn’t matter. (<i>To <span class="smcap">Richard</span></i>) Light a cigarette in the manner of the word.</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">Richard</span>: I’ve forgotten what it is.</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">Judith</span> (<i>grimacing at him violently</i>): You remember....</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">Richard</span>: Oh, yes.</p>
			<div class="direction">
				<p>[<i>He proceeds to light a cigarette with great abandon, winking his eye and chucking <span class="smcap">Sorel</span> under the chin.</i></p>
			</div>
			<p><span class="smcap">Judith</span>: Oh, no, no, no!</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">Myra</span>: I can’t think <i>what</i> that’s meant to be.</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">Richard</span> (<i>offended</i>): I was doing my best.</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">Judith</span>: It’s so <i>frightfully</i> easy, and nobody can do it right.</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">Simon</span>: I believe you’ve muddled it up.</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">Richard</span>: You’d better go on to the next one.</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">Judith</span>: Which word were you doing? Whisper——</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">Richard</span> (<i>whispering</i>): “Saucily.”</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">Judith</span>: I knew it!—He was doing the wrong word. (<i>She whispers to him.</i>)</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">Richard</span>: Oh, I see. I’m so sorry.</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">Judith</span>: Give him another chance.</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">Simon</span>: No, it’s Jackie’s turn now; it will come round to him again, I’m afraid.</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">Sorel</span> (<i>to <span class="smcap">Jackie</span></i>): Do a dance in the manner of the word.</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">Jackie</span> (<i>giggling</i>): I can’t.</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">Judith</span>: Nonsense! Of course you can.</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">Jackie</span>: I can’t—honestly—I....</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">Simon</span> (<i>pulling her to her feet</i>): Go on; have a shot at it.</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">Jackie</span>: No, I’d much rather not. Count me out.</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">Judith</span>: Really, the ridiculous fuss everyone makes——</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">Jackie</span>: I’m awfully stupid at anything like this.</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">Sorel</span>: It’s only a game, after all.</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">David</span>: Come along—try.</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">Jackie</span> (<i>dragging back</i>): I couldn’t—please don’t ask me to. I simply couldn’t.</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">Simon</span>: Leave her alone if she doesn’t want to.</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">Sorel</span> (<i>irritably</i>): What’s the use of playing at all, if people won’t do it properly?</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">Judith</span>: It’s <i>so</i> simple.</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">Sandy</span>: It’s awfully difficult if you haven’t done it before.</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">Simon</span>: Go on to the next one.</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">Sorel</span> (<i>firmly</i>): Unless everyone’s in it we won’t play at all.</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">Simon</span>: Now don’t lose your temper.</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">Sorel</span>: Lose my temper! I like that! No one’s given me the slightest indication of what the word is—you all argue and squabble——</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">David</span>: Talk, talk, talk! Everybody talks too much.</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">Judith</span>: It’s so surprising to me when people won’t play up. After all——</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">Jackie</span> (<i>with spirit</i>): It’s a hateful game, anyhow, and I don’t want to play it again ever.</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">Sorel</span>: You haven’t played it at all yet.</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">Simon</span>: Don’t be rude, Sorel.</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">Sorel</span>: Really, Simon, the way you go on is infuriating!</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">Simon</span>: It’s always the way; whenever Sorel goes out she gets quarrelsome.</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">Sorel</span>: Quarrelsome!</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">Simon</span>: Don’t worry, Jackie; you needn’t do anything you don’t want to.</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">Judith</span>: I think, for the future, we’d better confine our efforts to social conversation and not attempt anything in the least intelligent.</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">Simon</span>: How can you be so unkind, Mother?</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">Judith</span> (<i>sharply</i>): Don’t speak to me like that.</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">Jackie</span>: It’s all my fault—I know I’m awfully silly, but it embarrasses me so terribly doing anything in front of people.</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">Sorel</span> (<i>with acidity</i>): I should think the word was, “winsomely.”</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">Simon</span>: You must have been listening outside the door then.</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">Sorel</span>: Not at all—Miss Coryton gave it away.</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">Simon</span>: Why “Miss Coryton” all of a sudden? You’ve been calling her Jackie all the evening. You’re far too grand, Sorel.</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">Sorel</span>: And you’re absolutely maddening—I’ll never play another game with you as long as I live.</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">Simon</span>: That won’t break my heart.</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">Judith</span>: Stop, stop, stop!</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">Simon</span> (<i>grabbing <span class="smcap">Jackie’s</span> hand</i>): Come out in the garden. I’m sick of this.</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">Sorel</span>: Don’t let him take you on the river; he isn’t very good at it.</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">Simon</span> (<i>over his shoulder</i>): Ha, ha!—very funny. (<i>He drags <span class="smcap">Jackie</span> off.</i>)</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">Judith</span>: Sorel, you’re behaving disgracefully.</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">Sorel</span>: Simon ought to go into the Army, or something.</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">David</span>: You both ought to be in Reformatories.</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">Sorel</span>: This always happens whenever we play a game. We’re a beastly family, and I hate us.</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">Judith</span>: Speak for yourself, dear.</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">Sorel</span>: I can’t, without speaking for everyone else too—we’re all exactly the same, and I’m ashamed of us.—Come into the library, Sandy. (<i>She drags <span class="smcap">Sandy</span> off.</i>)</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">Myra</span>: Charming! It’s all perfectly charming.</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">David</span>: I think it would be better, Judith, if you exercised a little more influence over the children.</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">Judith</span>: That’s right—blame it all on me.</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">David</span>: After all, dear, you started it, by snapping everybody up.</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">Judith</span>: You ought never to have married me, David; it was a great mistake.</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">David</span>: The atmosphere of this house is becoming more unbearable every day, and all because Simon and Sorel are allowed to do exactly what they like.</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">Judith</span>: You sit upstairs all day, writing your novels.</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">David</span>: Novels which earn us our daily bread.</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">Judith</span>: “Daily bread” nonsense! We’ve got enough money to keep us in comfort until we die.</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">David</span>: That will be very soon, if we can’t get a little peace. (<i>To <span class="smcap">Myra</span></i>) Come out into the garden——</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">Judith</span>: I sincerely hope the night air will cool you.</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">David</span>: I don’t know what’s happened to you lately, Judith.</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">Judith</span>: Nothing’s happened to me—nothing ever does. You’re far too smug to allow it.</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">David</span>: Smug! Thank you.</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">Judith</span>: Yes, smug, smug, smug! And pompous!</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">David</span>: I hope you haven’t been drinking, dear.</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">Judith</span>: Drinking! Huh! that’s very amusing!</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">David</span>: I think it’s rather tragic, at your time of life. (<i>He goes out with <span class="smcap">Myra</span>.</i>)</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">Judith</span>: David’s been a good husband to me, but he’s wearing a bit thin now.</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">Richard</span>: Would you like me to go? To leave you alone for a little?</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">Judith</span>: Why? Are you afraid I shall become violent?</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">Richard</span> (<i>smiling</i>): No; I merely thought perhaps I was in the way.</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">Judith</span>: I hope you’re not embarrassed—I couldn’t bear you to be embarrassed.</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">Richard</span>: Not in the least.</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">Judith</span>: Marriage is a hideous affair altogether, don’t you think?</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">Richard</span>: I’m really hardly qualified to judge, you see.</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">Judith</span>: Do stop being non-committal, just for once; it’s doubly annoying in the face of us all having lost control so lamentably.</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">Richard</span>: I’m sorry.</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">Judith</span>: There’s nothing to be sorry for, really, because, after all, it’s your particular “thing,” isn’t it?—observing everything and not giving yourself away an inch.</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">Richard</span>: I suppose it is.</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">Judith</span>: You’ll get used to us in time, you know, and then you’ll feel cosier. Why don’t you sit down? (<i>She sits on sofa.</i>)</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">Richard</span>: I’m enjoying myself very much.</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">Judith</span>: It’s very sweet of you to say so, but I don’t see how you can be.</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">Richard</span> (<i>laughing suddenly</i>): But I am!</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">Judith</span>: There now! that was quite a genuine laugh. We’re getting on. Are you in love with Sorel?</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">Richard</span> (<i>surprised and embarrassed</i>): In love with Sorel?</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">Judith</span> (<i>repentantly</i>): Now I’ve killed it—I’ve murdered the little tender feeling of comfort that was stealing over you, by sheer tactlessness! Will you teach me to be tactful?</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">Richard</span>: Did you really think I was in love with Sorel?</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">Judith</span>: It’s so difficult to tell, isn’t it?—I mean, you might not know yourself. She’s very attractive.</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">Richard</span>: Yes, she is—very.</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">Judith</span>: Have you heard her sing?</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">Richard</span>: No, not yet.</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">Judith</span>: She sings beautifully. Are you susceptible to music?</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">Richard</span>: I’m afraid I don’t know very much about it.</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">Judith</span>: You probably are, then. I’ll sing you something.</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">Richard</span>: Please do.</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">Judith</span> (<i>rising</i>): It’s awfully sad for a woman of my temperament to have a grown-up daughter, you know. I have to put my pride in my pocket and develop in her all the charming little feminine tricks which will eventually cut me out altogether.</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">Richard</span>: That wouldn’t be possible.</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">Judith</span>: I do hope you meant that, because it was a sweet remark. (<i>She is at the piano, turning over music.</i>)</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">Richard</span> (<i>following her</i>): Of course I meant it.</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">Judith</span>: Will you lean on the piano in an attentive attitude? It’s such a help.</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">Richard</span>: You’re an extraordinary person.</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">Judith</span> (<i>beginning to play</i>): In what way extraordinary?</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">Richard</span>: When I first met Sorel, I guessed what you’d be like.</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">Judith</span>: Did you, now? And am I?</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">Richard</span> (<i>smiling</i>): Exactly.</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">Judith</span>: Oh, well.... (<i>She plays and sings a little French song.</i>)</p>
			<div class="direction">
				<p>[<i>There is a slight pause when it is finished.</i></p>
			</div>
			<p><span class="smcap">Richard</span> (<i>with feeling</i>): Thank you.</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">Judith</span> (<i>rising from the piano</i>): It’s pretty, isn’t it?</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">Richard</span>: Perfectly enchanting.</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">Judith</span>: Shall we sit down again? (<i>She re-seats herself on sofa.</i>)</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">Richard</span>: Won’t you sing any more?</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">Judith</span>: No, no more—I want you to talk to me and tell me all about yourself, and the things you’ve done.</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">Richard</span>: I’ve done nothing.</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">Judith</span>: What a shame! Why not?</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">Richard</span>: I never realise how dead I am until I meet people like you. It’s depressing, you know.</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">Judith</span>: What nonsense! You’re not a bit dead.</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">Richard</span>: Do you always live here?</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">Judith</span>: I’m going to, from now onwards. I intend to sink into a very beautiful old age. When the children marry, I shall wear a cap.</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">Richard</span> (<i>smiling</i>): How absurd!</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">Judith</span>: I don’t mean a funny cap.</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">Richard</span>: You’re far too full of vitality to sink into anything.</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">Judith</span>: It’s entirely spurious vitality. If you troubled to look below the surface, you’d find a very wistful and weary spirit. I’ve been battling with life for a long time.</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">Richard</span>: Surely such successful battles as yours have been are not wearying?</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">Judith</span>: Yes, they are—frightfully. I’ve reached an age now when I just want to sit back and let things go on around me—and they do.</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">Richard</span>: I should like to know exactly what you’re thinking about—really.</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">Judith</span>: I was thinking of calling you Richard. It’s such a nice uncompromising name.</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">Richard</span>: I should be very flattered if you would.</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">Judith</span>: I won’t suggest you calling me Judith until you feel really comfortable about me.</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">Richard</span>: But I do—Judith.</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">Judith</span>: I’m awfully glad. Will you give me a cigarette?</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">Richard</span> (<i>producing case</i>): Certainly.</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">Judith</span> (<i>taking one</i>): That’s a divine case.</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">Richard</span>: It was given to me in Japan three years ago. All those little designs mean things.</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">Judith</span> (<i>bending over it</i>): What sort of things?</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">Richard</span>: Charms for happiness, and luck, and—love.</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">Judith</span>: Which is the charm for love?</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">Richard</span>: That one.</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">Judith</span>: What a dear!</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">Richard</span> (<i>kissing her gently</i>): Judith!</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">Judith</span> (<i>jumping</i>): Richard!</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">Richard</span>: I’m afraid I couldn’t help it.</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">Judith</span> (<i>dramatically</i>): What are we to do? What are we to do?</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">Richard</span>: I don’t know.</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">Judith</span>: David must be told—everything!</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">Richard</span> (<i>alarmed</i>): Everything?</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">Judith</span> (<i>enjoying herself</i>): Yes, yes. There come moments in life when it is necessary to be honest—absolutely honest. I’ve trained myself always to shun the underhand methods other women so often employ—the truth must be faced fair and square——</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">Richard</span> (<i>extremely alarmed</i>): The truth? I don’t quite understand.</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">Judith</span>: Dear Richard, you want to spare me, I know—you’re so chivalrous; but it’s no use. After all, as I said before, David has been a good husband to me, according to his lights. This may, of course, break him up rather, but it can’t be helped; he must be told. I wonder—oh, I wonder how he’ll take it. They say suffering’s good for writers, it strengthens their psychology. Oh, my poor, poor David!—Never mind. You’d better go out into the garden and wait——</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">Richard</span> (<i>flustered</i>): Wait? What for?</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">Judith</span>: For me, Richard, for me. I will come to you later. Wait in the summer-house. I had begun to think that Romance was dead, that I should never know it again. Before, of course, I had my work and my life in the theatre, but now, nothing—nothing! Everything is empty and hollow, like a broken shell.</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">Richard</span>: Look here, Judith, I apologise for what I did just now. I——</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">Judith</span> (<i>ignoring all interruption</i>): But now you have come, and it’s all changed—it’s magic. I’m under a spell that I never thought to recapture again. Go along——(<i>She pushes him towards the garden.</i>)</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">Richard</span> (<i>protesting</i>): But, Judith——</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">Judith</span> (<i>pushing him firmly</i>): Don’t—don’t make it any harder for me. I am quite resolved—it is my self-appointed Calvary, and it’s the only possible way!</p>
			<div class="direction">
				<p>[<i>She pushes him into the garden and waves to him bravely with her handkerchief; then she comes back into the room and powders her nose before the glass and puts her hair into place. Then, assuming an expression of restrained tragedy, she opens the library door, from which she recoils genuinely shocked.</i></p>
				<p>[<i>After a moment or two <span class="smcap">Sorel</span> and <span class="smcap">Sandy</span> come out rather sheepishly.</i></p>
			</div>
			<p><span class="smcap">Sorel</span>: Look here, Mother, I——</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">Judith</span>: Sorel, what am I to say to you?</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">Sorel</span>: I don’t know, Mother.</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">Judith</span>: Neither do I.</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">Sandy</span>: It was my fault, Mrs. Bliss—Judith——</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">Judith</span>: What a fool I’ve been! What a blind fool!</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">Sorel</span>: Mother, are you <i>really</i> upset?</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">Judith</span> (<i>with feeling</i>): I’m stunned.</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">Sorel</span>: But, darling——</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">Judith</span> (<i>gently</i>): Don’t speak for a moment, Sorel; we must all be very quiet, and think——</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">Sorel</span>: It was nothing, really. For Heaven’s sake——</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">Judith</span>: Nothing! I open the library door casually, and what do I see? I ask you, what do I see?</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">Sandy</span>: I’m most awfully sorry....</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">Judith</span>: Ssshh! It has gone beyond superficial apologies.</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">Sorel</span>: Mother, be natural for a minute.</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">Judith</span>: I don’t know what you mean, Sorel. I’m trying to realise a very bitter truth as calmly as I can.</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">Sorel</span>: There’s nothing so very bitter about it.</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">Judith</span>: My poor child!</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">Sorel</span> (<i>suddenly</i>): Very well, then! I love Sandy, and he loves me!</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">Judith</span>: That would be the only possible excuse for your behaviour.</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">Sorel</span>: Why shouldn’t we love each other if we want to?</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">Judith</span>: Sandy was in love with me this afternoon.</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">Sorel</span>: Not real love—you know it wasn’t.</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">Judith</span> (<i>bitterly</i>): I know now.</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">Sandy</span>: I say—look here—I’m most awfully sorry.</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">Judith</span>: There’s nothing to be sorry for, really; it’s my fault for having been so—so ridiculous.</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">Sorel</span>: Mother!</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">Judith</span> (<i>sadly</i>): Yes, ridiculous. I’m getting old, old, and the sooner I face it the better.</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">Sorel</span> (<i>hopelessly</i>): But, darling....</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">Judith</span> (<i>splendidly</i>): Youth will be served. You’re so pretty, Sorel, far prettier than I ever was—I’m very glad you’re pretty.</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">Sandy</span>: I feel a fearful cad.</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">Judith</span>: Why should you? You’ve answered the only call that really counts—the call of Love, and Romance, and Spring. I forgive you, Sandy, completely. There.</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">Sorel</span>: Well, that’s all right, then.</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">Judith</span>: I resent your tone, Sorel; you seem to be taking things too much for granted. Perhaps you don’t realise that I am making a great sacrifice!</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">Sorel</span>: Sorry, darling.</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">Judith</span>: It’s far from easy, at my time of life, to——</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">Sorel</span> (<i>playing up</i>): Mother—Mother, say you understand and forgive!</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">Judith</span>: Understand! You forget, dear, I am a woman.</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">Sorel</span>: I know you are, Mother. That’s what makes it all so poignant.</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">Judith</span> (<i>magnanimously, to <span class="smcap">Sandy</span></i>): If you want Sorel, truly, I give her to you—unconditionally.</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">Sandy</span> (<i>dazed</i>): Thanks—awfully, Mrs. Bliss.</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">Judith</span>: You can still call me Judith, can’t you?—it’s not much to ask.</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">Sandy</span>: Judith.</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">Judith</span> (<i>bravely</i>): There, now. Away with melancholy. This is all tremendously exciting, and we must all be very happy.</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">Sorel</span>: Don’t tell Father—yet.</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">Judith</span>: We won’t tell anybody; it shall be our little secret.</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">Sorel</span>: You are splendid, Mother.</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">Judith</span>: Nonsense. I just believe in being honest with myself—it’s awfully good for one, you know, so cleansing. I’m going upstairs now to have a little aspirin——(<i>She goes upstairs, and turns.</i>) Ah, Youth, Youth, what a strange, mad muddle you make of things! (<i>She goes off.</i>)</p>
			<div class="direction">
				<p>[<i><span class="smcap">Sorel</span> heaves a slight sigh, and takes a cigarette.</i></p>
			</div>
			<p><span class="smcap">Sorel</span>: Well, that’s that.</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">Sandy</span>: Yes.</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">Sorel</span>: It’s all right. Don’t look so gloomy—I know you don’t love me really.</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">Sandy</span> (<i>startled</i>): I say, Sorel——</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">Sorel</span>: Don’t protest; you know you don’t—any more than I love you.</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">Sandy</span>: But you told Judith——</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">Sorel</span> (<i>nonchalantly</i>): I was only playing up—one always plays up to Mother in this house; it’s a sort of unwritten law.</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">Sandy</span>: Didn’t she mean all she said?</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">Sorel</span>: No, not really; we none of us ever mean anything.</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">Sandy</span>: She seemed awfully upset.</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">Sorel</span>: It must have been a slight shock for her to discover us clasped tightly in each other’s arms.</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">Sandy</span>: I believe I do love you, Sorel.</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">Sorel</span>: A month ago I should have let you go on believing that, but now I can’t—I’m bent on improving myself.</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">Sandy</span>: I don’t understand.</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">Sorel</span>: Never mind—it doesn’t matter. You just fell a victim to the atmosphere, that’s all. There we were alone in the library, with the windows wide open, and probably a nightingale somewhere about——</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">Sandy</span>: I only heard a cuckoo.</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">Sorel</span>: Even a cuckoo has charm, in moderation. You kissed me because you were awfully nice and I was awfully nice and we both liked kissing very much. It was inevitable. Then Mother found us and got dramatic—her sense of the theatre is always fatal. She knows we shan’t marry, the same as you and I do. You’re under absolutely no obligation to me at all.</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">Sandy</span>: I wish I understood you a bit better.</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">Sorel</span>: Never mind about understanding me. Let’s go back into the library.</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">Sandy</span>: All right.</p>
			<div class="direction">
				<p>[<i>They go off.</i></p>
				<p>[<i>After a moment’s pause, <span class="smcap">David</span> and <span class="smcap">Myra</span> enter from the garden.</i></p>
			</div>
			<p><span class="smcap">David</span>: ... And, you see, he comes in and finds her there waiting for him.</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">Myra</span>: She hadn’t been away at all?</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">David</span>: No; and that’s psychologically right. I’m sure. No woman, under those circumstances, <i>would</i>.</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">Myra</span>: It’s brilliant of you to see that. I do think the whole thing sounds most excellent.</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">David</span>: I got badly stuck in the middle of the book, when the boy comes down from Oxford—but it worked out all right eventually.</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">Myra</span> (<i>sitting on sofa</i>): When shall I be able to read it?</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">David</span>: I’ll send you the proofs—you can help me correct them.</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">Myra</span>: How divine! I shall feel most important.</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">David</span>: Would you like a cigarette, or anything?</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">Myra</span>: No, thank you.</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">David</span>: I think I’ll have a drink.</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">Myra</span>: Very well; give me some plain soda-water, then.</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">David</span> (<i>going to side table</i>): There isn’t any ice—d’you mind?</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">Myra</span>: Not a bit.</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">David</span> (<i>bringing her drink</i>): Here you are.</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">Myra</span>: Thank you. (<i>She sips it.</i>) I wonder where everybody is.</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">David</span>: Not here, thank God.</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">Myra</span>: It must be dreadfully worrying for you, having a houseful of people.</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">David</span> (<i>having poured himself out a whisky-and-soda, sits down by her side</i>): It depends on the people.</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">Myra</span>: I have a slight confession to make.</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">David</span>: Confession?</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">Myra</span>: Yes. Do you know why I came down here?</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">David</span>: Not in the least. I suppose one of us asked you, didn’t they?</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">Myra</span>: Oh, yes, they asked me, but——</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">David</span>: Well?</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">Myra</span>: I was invited once before—last September.</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">David</span>: I was in America then.</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">Myra</span>: Exactly.</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">David</span>: How do you mean “exactly”?</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">Myra</span>: I didn’t come. I’m a very determined woman, you know, and I made up my mind to meet you ages ago.</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">David</span>: That was charming of you. I’m not much to meet really.</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">Myra</span>: You see, I’d read “Broken Reeds.”</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">David</span>: Did you like it?</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">Myra</span>: Like it! I think it’s one of the finest novels I’ve ever read.</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">David</span>: There now!</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">Myra</span>: How do you manage to know so much about women?</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">David</span>: I’m afraid my knowledge of them is sadly superficial.</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">Myra</span>: Oh, no; you can’t call Evelyn’s character superficial—it’s amazing.</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">David</span>: Why are you being so nice to me? Have you got a plan about something?</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">Myra</span> (<i>laughing</i>): How suspicious you are!</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">David</span>: I can’t help it—you’re very attractive, and I’m always suspicious of attractive people, on principle.</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">Myra</span>: Not a very good principle.</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">David</span>: I’ll tell you something—strictly between ourselves.</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">Myra</span>: Do.</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">David</span>: You’re wrong about me.</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">Myra</span>: Wrong? In what way?</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">David</span>: I write very bad novels.</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">Myra</span>: Don’t be so ridiculous.</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">David</span>: And you <i>know</i> I do, because you’re an intelligent person.</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">Myra</span>: I don’t know anything of the sort.</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">David</span>: Tell me why you’re being so nice to me?</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">Myra</span>: Because I want to be.</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">David</span>: Why?</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">Myra</span>: You’re a very clever and amusing man.</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">David</span>: Splendid.</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">Myra</span>: And I think I’ve rather lost my heart to you.</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">David</span>: Shall we elope?</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">Myra</span>: David!</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">David</span>: There now, you’ve called me David!</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">Myra</span>: Do you mind?</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">David</span>: Not at all.</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">Myra</span>: I’m not sure that you’re being very kind.</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">David</span>: What makes you think that?</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">Myra</span>: You’re being rather the cynical author laughing up his sleeve at a gushing admirer.</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">David</span>: I think you’re a very interesting woman, and extremely nice-looking.</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">Myra</span>: Do you?</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">David</span>: Yes. Would you like me to make love to you?</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">Myra</span> (<i>rising</i>): Really—I wish you wouldn’t say things like that.</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">David</span>: I’ve knocked you off your plate—I’ll look away for a minute while you climb on to it again. (<i>He does so.</i>)</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">Myra</span> (<i>laughing affectedly</i>): This is wonderful! (<i>She sits down again.</i>)</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">David</span> (<i>turning</i>): That’s right. Now then——</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">Myra</span>: Now then, what?</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">David</span>: You’re adorable—you’re magnificent—you’re tawny——</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">Myra</span>: I’m not tawny.</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">David</span>: Don’t argue.</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">Myra</span>: This is sheer affectation.</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">David</span>: Affectation’s very nice.</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">Myra</span>: No, it isn’t—it’s odious.</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">David</span>: You mustn’t get cross.</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">Myra</span>: I’m not in the least cross.</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">David</span>: Yes, you are—but you’re very alluring.</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">Myra</span> (<i>perking up</i>): Alluring?</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">David</span>: Terribly.</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">Myra</span>: I can hear your brain clicking—it’s very funny.</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">David</span>: That was rather rude.</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">Myra</span>: You’ve been consistently rude to me for hours.</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">David</span>: Never mind.</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">Myra</span>: Why have you?</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">David</span>: I’m always rude to people I like.</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">Myra</span>: Do you like me?</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">David</span>: Enormously.</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">Myra</span>: How sweet of you!</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">David</span>: But I don’t like your methods.</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">Myra</span>: Methods? What methods?</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">David</span>: You’re far too pleasant to occupy yourself with the commonplace.</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">Myra</span>: And you spoil yourself by trying to be clever.</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">David</span>: Thank you.</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">Myra</span>: Anyhow, I don’t know what you mean by commonplace.</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">David</span>: You mean you want me to explain?</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">Myra</span>: Not at all.</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">David</span>: Very well; I will.</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">Myra</span>: I shan’t listen. (<i>She stops up her ears.</i>)</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">David</span>: You’ll pretend not to, but you’ll hear every word really.</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">Myra</span> (<i>sarcastically</i>): You’re so inscrutable and quizzical—just what a feminine psychologist should be.</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">David</span>: Yes, aren’t I?</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">Myra</span>: You frighten me dreadfully.</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">David</span>: Darling!</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">Myra</span>: Don’t call me darling.</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">David</span>: That’s unreasonable. You’ve been trying to make me—all the evening.</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">Myra</span>: Your conceit is outrageous!</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">David</span>: It’s not conceit at all. You’ve been firmly buttering me up because you want a nice little intrigue.</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">Myra</span> (<i>rising</i>): How dare you!</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">David</span> (<i>pulling her down again</i>): It’s true, it’s true. If it weren’t, you wouldn’t be so angry.</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">Myra</span>: I think you’re insufferable!</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">David</span> (<i>taking her hand</i>): Myra—dear Myra——</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">Myra</span> (<i>snatching it away</i>): Don’t touch me.</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">David</span>: Let’s have that nice little intrigue. The only reason I’ve been so annoying is that I love to see things as they are first, and then pretend they’re what they’re not.</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">Myra</span>: Words! Masses and masses of words!</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">David</span>: They’re great fun to play with.</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">Myra</span>: I’m glad you think so. Personally, they bore me stiff.</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">David</span> (<i>catching her hand again</i>): Myra—don’t be statuesque.</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">Myra</span>: Let go my hand!</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">David</span>: You’re charming. (<i>He gets up and stands close to her.</i>)</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">Myra</span> (<i>furiously</i>): Let go my hand.</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">David</span>: I won’t.</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">Myra</span>: You will!</p>
			<div class="direction">
				<p>[<i>She slaps his face hard, and he seizes her in his arms and kisses her.</i></p>
			</div>
			<p><span class="smcap">David</span> (<i>between kisses</i>): You’re—perfectly—sweet.</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">Myra</span> (<i>giving in</i>): David!</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">David</span>: You must say it’s an entrancing amusement. (<i>He kisses her again.</i>)</p>
			<div class="direction">
				<p>[<i><span class="smcap">Judith</span> appears at the top of the stairs and sees them. They break away.</i></p>
			</div>
			<p><span class="smcap">Judith</span> (<i>coming down</i>): Forgive me for interrupting.</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">David</span>: Are there any chocolates in the house?</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">Judith</span>: No, David.</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">David</span>: I should like a chocolate more than anything in the world, at the moment.</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">Judith</span>: This is a very unpleasant situation, David.</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">David</span> (<i>agreeably</i>): Horrible.</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">Judith</span>: We’d better talk it all over.</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">Myra</span> (<i>making a movement</i>): I shall do nothing of the sort.</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">Judith</span>: Please—please don’t be difficult.</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">David</span>: I apologise, Judith.</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">Judith</span>: Don’t apologise—I quite understand.</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">Myra</span>: Please let go of my hand, David; I should like to go to bed.</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">Judith</span>: I should stay if I were you—it would be more dignified.</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">David</span>: There isn’t any real necessity for a scene.</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">Judith</span>: I don’t want a scene. I just want to straighten things out.</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">David</span>: Very well—go ahead.</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">Judith</span>: June has always been an unlucky month for me.</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">Myra</span>: Look here, Judith, I’d like to explain one thing——</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">Judith</span> (<i>austerely</i>): I don’t wish to hear any explanations or excuses—they’re so cheapening. This was bound to happen sooner or later—it always does, to everybody. The only thing is to keep calm.</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">David</span>: I am—perfectly.</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">Judith</span> (<i>sharply</i>): There is such a thing as being too calm.</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">David</span>: Sorry, dear.</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">Judith</span>: Life has dealt me another blow, but I don’t mind.</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">David</span>: What did you say?</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">Judith</span> (<i>crossly</i>): I said Life had dealt me another blow, but I didn’t mind.</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">David</span>: Rubbish.</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">Judith</span> (<i>gently</i>): You’re probably irritable, dear, because you’re in the wrong. It’s quite usual.</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">David</span>: Now, Judith——</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">Judith</span>: Ssshhh! Let me speak—it is my right.</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">Myra</span>: I don’t see why.</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">Judith</span> (<i>surprised</i>): I am the injured party, am I not?</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">Myra</span>: Injured?</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">Judith</span> (<i>firmly</i>): Yes, extremely injured.</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">David</span> (<i>contemptuously</i>): Injured!</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">Judith</span>: Your attitude, David, is nothing short of deplorable.</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">David</span>: It’s all nonsense—sheer, unbridled nonsense.</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">Judith</span>: No, David, you can’t evade the real issues as calmly as that. I’ve known for a long time—I’ve realised subconsciously for years that you’ve stopped caring for me in “that way.”</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">David</span> (<i>irritably</i>): What do you mean—“that way”?</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">Judith</span> (<i>with a wave of the hand</i>): Just that way.... It’s rather tragic, but quite inevitable. I’m growing old now—men don’t grow old like women, as you’ll find to your cost, Myra, in a year or two. David has retained his youth astonishingly, perhaps because he has had fewer responsibilities and cares than I——</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">Myra</span>: This is all ridiculous hysteria.</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">David</span> (<i>looking at her and not liking her very much</i>): No, Myra—Judith is right. What are we to do?</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">Myra</span> (<i>furious</i>): Do? Nothing!</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">Judith</span> (<i>ignoring her</i>): Do you love her truly, David?</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">David</span>: Madly.</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">Myra</span> (<i>astounded</i>): David!</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">David</span> (<i>intensely</i>): You thought just now that I was joking. Couldn’t you see that all my flippancy was only a mask, hiding my real emotions—crushing them down desperately——?</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">Myra</span> (<i>scared</i>): But, David, I——</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">Judith</span>: I knew it! The time has come for the dividing of the ways.</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">Myra</span>: What on earth do you mean?</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">Judith</span>: I mean that I am not the sort of woman to hold a man against his will.</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">Myra</span>: You’re both making a mountain out of a mole-hill. David doesn’t love me madly, and I don’t love him. It’s——</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">Judith</span>: Ssshhh!—you <i>do</i> love him. I can see it in your eyes—in your every gesture. David, I give you to her—freely and without rancour. We must all be good friends, always.</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">David</span>: Judith, do you mean this?</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">Judith</span> (<i>with a melting look</i>): You know I do.</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">David</span>: How can we ever repay you?</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">Judith</span>: Just by being happy. I may leave this house later on—I have a feeling that its associations may become painful, specially in the autumn——</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">Myra</span>: Look here, Judith——</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">Judith</span> (<i>shouting her down</i>): October is such a mournful month in England. I think I shall probably go abroad—perhaps a <i>pension</i> somewhere in Italy, with cypresses in the garden. I’ve always loved cypresses.</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">David</span>: What about the children?</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">Judith</span>: We must share them, dear.</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">David</span>: I’ll pay you exactly half the royalties I receive from everything, Judith.</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">Judith</span> (<i>bowing her head</i>): That’s very generous of you.</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">David</span>: You have behaved magnificently. This is a crisis in our lives, and thanks to you——</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">Myra</span> (<i>almost shrieking</i>): Judith—I <i>will</i> speak—I——</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">David</span>: Ssshhh, Myra darling—we owe it to Judith to keep control of our emotions—a scene would be agonising for her now. She has been brave and absolutely splendid throughout. Let’s not make things harder for her than we can help. Come, we’ll go out into the garden.</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">Myra</span>: I will <i>not</i> go out into the garden.</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">Judith</span> (<i>twisting her handkerchief</i>): Please go—I don’t think I can bear any more just now.</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">David</span>: So this is the end, Judith?</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">Judith</span>: Yes, my dear,—the end.</p>
			<div class="direction">
				<p>[<i>They shake hands sadly.</i></p>
				<p>[<i><span class="smcap">Simon</span> enters violently from the garden.</i></p>
			</div>
			<p><span class="smcap">Simon</span>: Mother—Mother, I’ve got something important to tell you.</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">Judith</span> (<i>smiling bravely</i>): Very well, dear.</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">Simon</span>: Where’s Sorel?</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">Judith</span>: In the library, I’m afraid.</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">Simon</span> (<i>opening library door</i>): Sorel, come out—I’ve got something vital to tell you.</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">David</span> (<i>fatherly</i>): You seem excited, my boy. What has happened?</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">Sorel</span> (<i>entering with <span class="smcap">Sandy</span></i>): What’s the matter?</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">Simon</span>: I wish you wouldn’t all look so depressed—it’s good news!</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">David</span>: Good news! I thought perhaps Jackie had been drowned——</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">Simon</span>: No, Jackie hasn’t been drowned—she’s been something else.</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">Judith</span>: Simon, what <i>do</i> you mean?</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">Simon</span> (<i>calling</i>): Jackie—Jackie!</p>
			<div class="direction">
				<p>[<i><span class="smcap">Jackie</span> enters coyly from the garden.</i></p>
			</div>
			<p class="noindent">She has become engaged—to me!</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">Judith</span> (<i>in heartfelt tones</i>): Simon!</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">Sorel</span>: Good heavens!</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">Judith</span>: Simon, my dear! Oh, this is too much! (<i>She cries a little</i>).</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">Simon</span>: What on earth are you crying about, Mother?</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">Judith</span> (<i>picturesquely</i>): All my chicks leaving the nest. Now I shall only have my memories left. Jackie, come and kiss me.</p>
			<div class="direction">
				<p>[<i><span class="smcap">Jackie</span> goes to her.</i></p>
			</div>
			<p class="noindent">You must promise to make my son happy——</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">Jackie</span> (<i>worried</i>): But, Mrs. Bliss——</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">Judith</span>: Ssshhh! I understand. I have not been a mother for nothing.</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">Jackie</span> (<i>wildly</i>): But it’s not true—we don’t——</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">Judith</span>: You’re trying to spare my feelings—I know——</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">Myra</span> (<i>furiously</i>): Well, I’m not going to spare your feelings, or anyone else’s. You’re the most infuriating set of hypocrites I’ve ever seen. This house is a complete feather-bed of false emotions—you’re posing, self-centred egotists, and I’m sick to death of you.</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">Simon</span>: Myra!</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">Myra</span>: Don’t speak to me—I’ve been working up for this, only every time I opened my mouth I’ve been mowed down by theatrical effects. You haven’t got one sincere or genuine feeling among the lot of you—you’re artificial to the point of lunacy. It’s a great pity you ever left the stage, Judith—it’s your rightful home. You can rant and roar there as much as ever you like——</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">Judith</span>: Rant and roar! May God forgive you!</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">Myra</span>: And let me tell you this——</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">Simon</span> (<i>interrupting</i>): I’m not going to allow you to say another word to Mother——</p>
			<table class="inline">
				<tbody>
					<tr>
						<td>
							<p><span class="smcap">Sorel</span>:</p>
						</td>
						<td class="tdr">
							<p>}</p>
						</td>
						<td>
							<p>You ought to be ashamed of yourself——</p>
						</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td>
							<p><span class="smcap">Myra</span>:</p>
						</td>
						<td class="tdr">
							<p>}</p>
						</td>
						<td>
							<p>Let me speak—I will speak——</p>
						</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td>
							<p><span class="smcap">David</span>:</p>
						</td>
						<td class="tdr">
							<p>}</p>
						</td>
						<td>
							<p>Look here, Myra——</p>
						</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td>
							<p><span class="smcap">Judith</span>:</p>
						</td>
						<td class="tdr">
							<p>}</p>
						</td>
						<td>
							<p>This is appalling—appalling!</p>
						</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td>
							<p><span class="smcap">Sorel</span>:</p>
						</td>
						<td class="tdr">
							<p>}</p>
						</td>
						<td>
							<p>You must be stark, staring mad——</p>
						</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td>
							<p><span class="smcap">Myra</span>:</p>
						</td>
						<td class="tdr">
							<p>}</p>
						</td>
						<td>
							<p>Never again—never as long as I live——</p>
						</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td>
							<p><span class="smcap">David</span>:</p>
						</td>
						<td class="tdr">
							<p>}</p>
						</td>
						<td>
							<p>You don’t seem to grasp one thing that——</p>
						</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td>
							<p><span class="smcap">Simon</span>:</p>
						</td>
						<td class="tdr">
							<p>}</p>
						</td>
						<td>
							<p>Why are you behaving like this, anyhow?</p>
						</td>
					</tr>
				</tbody>
			</table>
			<div class="direction">
				<p>[<i>In the middle of the pandemonium of everyone talking at once, <span class="smcap">Richard</span> comes in from the garden. He looks extremely apprehensive, imagining that the noise is the outcome of <span class="smcap">Judith’s</span> hysterical confession of their lukewarm passion. He goes to <span class="smcap">Judith’s</span> side, summoning all his diplomatic forces. At his entrance everyone stops talking.</i></p>
			</div>
			<p><span class="smcap">Richard</span> (<i>with forced calm</i>): What’s happened? Is this a game?</p>
			<div class="direction">
				<p>[<i><span class="smcap">Judith’s</span> face gives a slight twitch; then with a meaning look at <span class="smcap">Sorel</span> and <span class="smcap">Simon</span>, she answers him.</i></p>
			</div>
			<p><span class="smcap">Judith</span> (<i>with spirit</i>): Yes, and a game that must be played to the finish!</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">Simon</span> (<i>grasping the situation</i>): Zara! What does this mean?</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">Judith</span> (<i>in bell-like tones</i>): So many illusions shattered—so many dreams trodden in the dust——</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">David</span> (<i>collapsing on to the sofa in hysterics</i>): Love’s whirlwind! Dear old Love’s whirlwind!</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">Sorel</span>: I don’t understand. You and Victor—My God!</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">Judith</span>: Hush! Isn’t that little Pam crying——?</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">Simon</span> (<i>savagely</i>): She’ll cry more, poor mite, when she realises her mother is a—a——</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">Judith</span> (<i>shrieking</i>): Don’t say it! Don’t say it!</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">Sorel</span>: Spare her that.</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">Judith</span>: I’ve given you all that makes life worth living—my youth, my womanhood, and now my child. Would you tear the very heart out of me? I tell you, it’s infamous that men like you should be allowed to pollute Society. You have ruined my life. I have nothing left—nothing. God in heaven, where am I to turn for help....</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">Sorel</span> (<i>through clenched teeth</i>): Is this true? Answer me—is this true?</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">Judith</span> (<i>wailing</i>): Yes, yes!</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">Sorel</span> (<i>springing at <span class="smcap">Simon</span></i>): You cur!!!</p>
			<p><span class="smcap">Judith</span> (<i>rushing between them</i>): Don’t strike! He is your father! (<i>She totters and falls in a dead faint.</i>)</p>
			<div class="direction">
				<p>[<i><span class="smcap">Myra</span>, <span class="smcap">Jackie</span>, <span class="smcap">Richard</span> and <span class="smcap">Sandy</span> look on, dated and aghast.</i></p>
			</div>
			<p class="center">
				<span class="smcap">Curtain.</span>
			</p>
		</section>
	</body>
</html>
